of alabama v. garrett as violating the sovereign immunity rights of the several states as specified by the eleventh amendment to the united states constitution. the court determined that state employees cannot sue their employer for violating ada rules. state employees can, however, file complaints at the department of justice or the equal employment opportunity commission, who can sue on their behalf. title ii — public entities ( and public transportation ) title ii prohibits disability discrimination by all public entities at the local level, e. g., school district, municipal, city, or county, and at state level. public entities must comply with title ii regulations by the u. s. department of justice. these regulations cover access to all programs and services offered by the entity. access includes physical access described in the ada standards for accessible design and programmatic access that might be obstructed by discriminatory policies or procedures of the entity. title ii applies to public transportation provided by public entities through regulations by the u. s. department of transportation. it includes the national railroad passenger corporation ( amtrak ), along with all other commuter authorities. this section requires the provision of paratransit services by public entities that provide fixed - route services. ada also sets minimum requirements for space layout in order to facilitate wheelchair securement on public transport. title ii also applies to all state and local public housing, housing assistance, and housing referrals. the office of fair housing and equal opportunity is charged with enforcing this provision. title iii — public accommodations ( and commercial facilities ) under title iii, no individual may be discriminated against on the basis of disability with regards to the full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, or accommodations of any place of public accommodation by any person who owns, leases, or operates a place of public accommodation. public accommodations include most places of lodging ( such as inns and hotels ), recreation, transportation, education, and dining, along with stores, care providers, and places of public displays. under title iii of the ada, all new construction ( construction, modification or alterations ) after the effective date of the ada ( approximately july 1992 ) must be fully compliant with the americans with disabilities act accessibility guidelines ( adaag ) found in the code of federal regulations at 28 c. f. r., part 36, appendix a. title iii also has applications to existing facilities. one of the definitions of " discrimination " under title iii of the ada is a " failure to remove " architectural barriers in existing facilities. see. this means that even facilities that have