& gender equality 3 ) children and hiv / aids and 4 ) child protection. the un refugee agency ( unhcr ) is mandated to lead and coordinate international action to protect refugees worldwide. its primary purpose is to safeguard the rights of refugees by ensuring anyone can exercise the right to seek asylum in another state, with the option to return home voluntarily, integrate locally or resettle in a third country. the unhcr operates in over 125 countries, helping approximately 33. 9 million persons. the world food programme ( wfp ) is the largest agency dedicated to fighting hunger worldwide. on average, the wfp brings food assistance to more than 90 million people in 75 countries. the wfp not only strives to prevent hunger in the present, but also in the future by developing stronger communities which will make food even more secure on their own. the wfp has a range of expertise from food security analysis, nutrition, food procurement and logistics. the world health organization ( who ) is responsible for providing leadership on global health matters, shaping the health research agenda, articulating evidence - based policy decisions and combating diseases that are induced from poverty, such as hiv / aids, malaria and tuberculosis. moreover, the who deals with pressing issues ranging from managing water safety, to dealing with maternal and newborn health. governmental agencies usaid the us agency for international development ( usaid ) is the lead us government agency dedicated to ending extreme poverty. currently the largest bilateral donor in the world, the united states channels the majority of its development assistance through usaid and the us department of state. in president obama ' s 2013 state of the union address, he declared, " so the united states will join with our allies to eradicate such extreme poverty in the next two decades... which is within our reach. " in response to obama ' s call to action, usaid has made ending extreme poverty central to its mission statement. under its new model of development, usaid seeks to eradicate extreme poverty through the use of innovation in science and technology, by putting a greater emphasis on evidence based decision - making, and through leveraging the ingenuity of the private sector and global citizens. a major initiative of the obama administration is power africa, which aims to bring energy to 20 million people in sub - saharan africa. by reaching out to its international partners, whether commercial or public, the us has leveraged over $ 14 billion in outside commitments after investing only us $ 7 billion of its own. to ensure that power africa reaches the region ' s poor