engineers had started work on plans for very large launch vehicles, the saturn series, and the even larger nova series. in the midst of these plans, von braun was transferred from the army to nasa and was made director of the marshall space flight center. the initial direct ascent plan to send the three - person apollo command and service module directly to the lunar surface, on top of a large descent rocket stage, would require a nova - class launcher, with a lunar payload capability of over. the june 11, 1962, decision to use lunar orbit rendezvous enabled the saturn v to replace the nova, and the msfc proceeded to develop the saturn rocket family for apollo. since apollo, like mercury, used more than one launch vehicle for space missions, nasa used spacecraft - launch vehicle combination series numbers : as - 10x for saturn i, as - 20x for saturn ib, and as - 50x for saturn v ( compare mercury - redstone 3, mercury - atlas 6 ) to designate and plan all missions, rather than numbering them sequentially as in project gemini. this was changed by the time human flights began. little joe ii since apollo, like mercury, would require a launch escape system ( les ) in case of a launch failure, a relatively small rocket was required for qualification flight testing of this system. a rocket bigger than the little joe used by mercury would be required, so the little joe ii was built by general dynamics / convair. after an august 1963 qualification test flight, four les test flights ( a - 001 through 004 ) were made at the white sands missile range between may 1964 and january 1966. saturn i saturn i, the first us heavy lift launch vehicle, was initially planned to launch partially equipped csms in low earth orbit tests. the s - i first stage burned rp - 1 with liquid oxygen ( lox ) oxidizer in eight clustered rocketdyne h - 1 engines, to produce of thrust. the s - iv second stage used six liquid hydrogen - fueled pratt & whitney rl - 10 engines with of thrust. the s - v third stage flew inactively on saturn i four times. the first four saturn i test flights were launched from lc - 34, with only the first stage live, carrying dummy upper stages filled with water. the first flight with a live s - iv was launched from lc - 37. this was followed by five launches of boilerplate csms ( designated as - 101 through as - 105 ) into orbit in 1964 and 1965. the last three of these further supported the apollo