##hil ' ad zuckermann founded the adelaide language festival. there are many international cultural fairs, most notably the german schutzenfest and greek glendi. adelaide holds an annual christmas pageant, the world ' s largest christmas parade. north terrace institutions as the state capital, adelaide has a great number of cultural institutions, many of them along the boulevard of north terrace. the art gallery of south australia, with about 35, 000 works, holds australia ' s second largest state - based collection. adjacent are the south australian museum and state library of south australia. the adelaide botanic garden, national wine centre and tandanya national aboriginal cultural institute are nearby in the east end of the city. in the back of the state library lies the migration museum, australia ' s oldest museum of its kind. further west, the lion arts centre is home to ace open, which showcases contemporary art ; dance hub sa ; and other studios and arts industry spaces. the mercury cinema and the jamfactory ceramics and design gallery are just around the corner. performing arts and music venues the adelaide festival centre ( which includes the dunstan playhouse, festival theatre and space theatre ), on the banks of the torrens, is the focal point for much of the cultural activity in the city and home to the state theatre company of south australia. other live music and theatre venues include the adelaide entertainment centre ; adelaide oval ; memorial drive park ; thebarton theatre ; adelaide town hall ; her majesty ' s theatre ; queen ' s theatre ; holden theatres ; and the hopgood theatre. the lion arts factory, within the lion arts centre, hosts contemporary music in a wide range of genres, as does " the gov " in hindmarsh. the city also has numerous smaller theatres, pubs and cabaret bars which host performances. live music in 2015, it was said that there were now more live music venues per capita in adelaide than any other capital city in the southern hemisphere, lonely planet labelled adelaide " australia ' s live music city ", and the city was recognised as a " city of music " by the unesco creative cities network. in addition to its own womad ( womadelaide ), adelaide attracts several touring music festivals, including creamfields, laneway and groovin '. adelaide has produced musical groups and individuals who have achieved national and international fame. these include the adelaide symphony orchestra, the adelaide youth orchestra, rock bands the angels, atlas genius, cold chisel, the superjesus, wolf & cub, roots / blues group the audreys, internationally acclaimed