with the gray allotrope of arsenic. a rare explosive form of antimony can be formed from the electrolysis of antimony trichloride. when scratched with a sharp implement, an exothermic reaction occurs and white fumes are given off as metallic antimony forms ; when rubbed with a pestle in a mortar, a strong detonation occurs. black antimony is formed upon rapid cooling of antimony vapor. it has the same crystal structure as red phosphorus and black arsenic ; it oxidizes in air and may ignite spontaneously. at 100 °c, it gradually transforms into the stable form. the yellow allotrope of antimony is the most unstable ; it has been generated only by oxidation of stibine ( sbh3 ) at −90 °c. above this temperature and in ambient light, this metastable allotrope transforms into the more stable black allotrope. elemental antimony adopts a layered structure ( space group rm no. 166 ) whose layers consist of fused, ruffled, six - membered rings. the nearest and next - nearest neighbors form an irregular octahedral complex, with the three atoms in each double layer slightly closer than the three atoms in the next. this relatively close packing leads to a high density of 6. 697 g / cm3, but the weak bonding between the layers leads to the low hardness and brittleness of antimony. isotopes antimony has two stable isotopes : 121sb with a natural abundance of 57. 36 % and 123sb with a natural abundance of 42. 64 %. it also has 35 radioisotopes, of which the longest - lived is 125sb with a half - life of 2. 75 years. in addition, 29 metastable states have been characterized. the most stable of these is 120m1sb with a half - life of 5. 76 days. isotopes that are lighter than the stable 123sb tend to decay by β + decay, and those that are heavier tend to decay by β− decay, with some exceptions. antimony is the lightest element to have an isotope with an alpha decay branch, excluding 8be and other light nuclides with beta - delayed alpha emission. occurrence the abundance of antimony in the earth ' s crust is estimated at 0. 2 parts per million, comparable to thallium at 0. 5 parts per million and silver at 0. 07 ppm. even though this element is not abundant, it is found in more than