s perspective. according to barbara branden, who was closely associated with rand at the time the book was written, there were sections written describing danneskjold ' s adventures at sea, cut from the final published text. in a 1974 comment at a lecture, rand said that danneskjold ' s name was a tribute to victor hugo ' s novel,, wherein the hero becomes the first of the counts of danneskjold. in the published book, danneskjold is always seen through the eyes of others ( dagny taggart or hank rearden ), except for a brief paragraph in the very last chapter. antagonists james taggart the president of taggart transcontinental and the book ' s most important antagonist. taggart is an expert influence peddler but incapable of making operational decisions on his own. he relies on his sister, dagny taggart, to actually run the railroad, but nonetheless opposes her in almost every endeavor because of his various anti - capitalist moral and political beliefs. in a sense, he is the antithesis of dagny. this contradiction leads to the recurring absurdity of his life : the desire to overcome those on whom his life depends, and the horror that he will succeed at this. in the final chapters of the novel, he suffers a complete mental breakdown upon realizing that he can no longer deceive himself in this respect. lillian rearden the unsupportive wife of hank rearden, who dislikes his habits and ( secretly at first ) seeks to ruin rearden to prove her own value. lillian achieves this, when she passes information to james taggart about her husband ' s affair with his sister. this information is used to blackmail rearden to sign a gift certificate which delivers all the property rights of rearden metal to others. lillian thereafter uses james taggart for sexual satisfaction, until hank abandons her. dr. floyd ferris ferris is a biologist who works as " co - ordinator " at the state science institute. he uses his position there to deride reason and productive achievement, and publishes a book entitled why do you think you think? he clashes on several occasions with hank rearden, and twice attempts to blackmail rearden into giving up rearden metal. he is also one of the group of looters who tries to get rearden to agree to the steel unification plan. ferris hosts the demonstration of the project x weapon, and is the creator of the ferris persuader, a torture machine. when john