like those of allosaurus, but did not or could not assign a species to them ). they were reclassified as an indeterminate theropod. also, reports of allosaurus in shanxi, china go back to at least 1982. these were interpreted as torvosaurus remains in 2012. an astragalus ( ankle bone ) thought to belong to a species of allosaurus was found at cape paterson, victoria in early cretaceous beds in southeastern australia. it was thought to provide evidence that australia was a refugium for animals that had gone extinct elsewhere. this identification was challenged by samuel welles, who thought it more resembled that of an ornithomimid, but the original authors defended their identification. with fifteen years of new specimens and research to look at, daniel chure reexamined the bone and found that it was not allosaurus, but could represent an allosauroid. similarly, yoichi azuma and phil currie, in their description of fukuiraptor, noted that the bone closely resembled that of their new genus. this specimen is sometimes referred to as " allosaurus robustus ", an informal museum name. it likely belonged to something similar to australovenator, although one study considered it to belong to an abelisaur. description allosaurus was a typical large theropod, having a massive skull on a short neck, a long, slightly sloping tail, and reduced forelimbs. allosaurus fragilis, the best - known species, had an average length of and mass of, with the largest definitive allosaurus specimen ( amnh 680 ) estimated at long, with an estimated weight of. in his 1976 monograph on allosaurus, james h. madsen mentioned a range of bone sizes which he interpreted to show a maximum length of. as with dinosaurs in general, weight estimates are debatable, and since 1980 have ranged between,, and approximately for modal adult weight ( not maximum ). john foster, a specialist on the morrison formation, suggests that is reasonable for large adults of a. fragilis, but that is a closer estimate for individuals represented by the average - sized thigh bones he has measured. using the subadult specimen nicknamed " big al ", since assigned to the species allosaurus jimmadseni, researchers using computer modelling arrived at a best estimate of for the individual, but by varying parameters they found a range from approximately to approximately. a. europaeus has been measured up to in length and in body mass. several gigantic