, in fact, resident in or close to the borders of germania superior. although dio is the earliest writer to mention them, ammianus marcellinus used the name to refer to germans on the limes germanicus in the time of trajan ' s governorship of the province shortly after it was formed, around 98 - 99 ad. at that time, the entire frontier was being fortified for the first time. trees from the earliest fortifications found in germania inferior are dated by dendrochronology to 99 - 100 ad. ammianus relates ( xvii. 1. 11 ) that much later the emperor julian undertook a punitive expedition against the alemanni, who by then were in alsace, and crossed the main ( latin menus ), entering the forest, where the trails were blocked by felled trees. as winter was upon them, they reoccupied a " fortification which was founded on the soil of the alemanni that trajan wished to be called with his own name ". in this context, the use of alemanni is possibly an anachronism, but it reveals that ammianus believed they were the same people, which is consistent with the location of the alemanni of caracalla ' s campaigns. conflicts with the roman empire the alemanni were continually engaged in conflicts with the roman empire in the third and fourth centuries. they launched a major invasion of gaul and northern italy in 268, when the romans were forced to denude much of their german frontier of troops in response to a massive invasion of the goths from the east. their raids throughout the three parts of gaul were traumatic : gregory of tours ( died ca 594 ) mentions their destructive force at the time of valerian and gallienus ( 253 – 260 ), when the alemanni assembled under their " king ", whom he calls chrocus, who acted " by the advice, it is said, of his wicked mother, and overran the whole of the gauls, and destroyed from their foundations all the temples which had been built in ancient times. and coming to clermont he set on fire, overthrew and destroyed that shrine which they call vasso galatae in the gallic tongue, " martyring many christians ( historia francorum book i. 32 – 34 ). thus sixth - century gallo - romans of gregory ' s class, surrounded by the ruins of roman temples and public buildings, attributed the destruction they saw to the plundering raids of the ale