the remaining apollo8 spacecraft, separated from it. the crew then rotated the spacecraft to take photographs of the spent stage and then practiced flying in formation with it. as the crew rotated the spacecraft, they had their first views of the earth as they moved away from it — this marked the first time humans had viewed the whole earth at once. borman became worried that the s - ivb was staying too close to the csm and suggested to mission control that the crew perform a separation maneuver. mission control first suggested pointing the spacecraft towards earth and using the small reaction control system ( rcs ) thrusters on the service module ( sm ) to add to their velocity away from the earth, but borman did not want to lose sight of the s - ivb. after discussion, the crew and mission control decided to burn in the earth direction to increase speed, but at instead. the time needed to prepare and perform the additional burn put the crew an hour behind their onboard tasks. five hours after launch, mission control sent a command to the s - ivb to vent its remaining fuel, changing its trajectory. the s - ivb, with the test article attached, posed no further hazard to apollo8, passing the orbit of the moon and going into a solar orbit with an inclination of 23. 47° from the earth ' s equatorial plane, and an orbital period of 340. 80 days. it became a derelict object, and will continue to orbit the sun for many years, if not retrieved. the apollo 8 crew were the first humans to pass through the van allen radiation belts, which extend up to from earth. scientists predicted that passing through the belts quickly at the spacecraft ' s high speed would cause a radiation dosage of no more than a chest x - ray, or 1milligray ( mgy ; during a year, the average human receives a dose of 2to 3mgy from background radiation ). to record the actual radiation dosages, each crew member wore a personal radiation dosimeter that transmitted data to earth, as well as three passive film dosimeters that showed the cumulative radiation experienced by the crew. by the end of the mission, the crew members experienced an average radiation dose of 1. 6 mgy. lunar trajectory lovell ' s main job as command module pilot was as navigator. although mission control normally performed all the actual navigation calculations, it was necessary to have a crew member adept at navigation so that the crew could return to earth in case communication with mission control was lost. lovell navigated by star sighting