of qandahar, and in august 1839, seized kabul. dost mohammad khan defeated the british in the parwan campaign, but surrendered following his victory. he was replaced with the former durrani ruler shah shuja durrani as the new ruler of kabul, a de facto puppet of the british. following an uprising that saw the assassination of shah shuja, the 1842 retreat from kabul of british - indian forces and the annihilation of elphinstone ' s army, and the punitive expedition of the battle of kabul that led to its sacking, the british gave up on their attempts to try and subjugate afghanistan, which allowed dost mohammad khan to return as ruler. dost mohammad united most of the afghan realm in his reign, launching numerous campaigns including against the surrounding states in afghanistan in numerous campaigns such as the hazarajat campaign, conquest of balkh, conquest of kunduz, conquest of kandahar, and finally securing the last major state, herat, in his final campaign. during his campaigns of re - unification, he held friendly relations with the british and affirmed their status in the second anglo - afghan treaty of 1857, while bukhara and internal leaders pressured the afghans to invade india. dost mohammad died in june 1863, a few weeks after his successful campaign to herat. following his death, a civil war ensued amongst his sons, prominently mohammad afzal khan, mohammad azam khan, and sher ali khan. sher ali won the resulting afghan civil war ( 1863 – 1869 ) and ruled the realm until 1878, when the british returned in the second anglo - afghan war to fight perceived russian influence in the region. britain gained control of afghanistan ' s foreign relations as part of the treaty of gandamak of 1879, making it an official british protected state. in 1893, amir abdur rahman signed an agreement in which the ethnic pashtun and baloch territories were divided by the durand line, which forms the modern - day border between pakistan and afghanistan. shia - dominated hazarajat and pagan kafiristan remained politically independent until being conquered by abdur rahman khan in 1891 – 1896. he was known as the " iron amir " for his features and his ruthless methods against tribes. he died in 1901, succeeded by his son, habibullah khan. during the first world war, when afghanistan was neutral, habibullah khan was met by officials of the central powers in the niedermayer – hentig expedition