##ency, decision - making, and memory ) are also seen. there can be lower motor neuron findings ( e. g. muscle wasting, muscle twitching ), upper motor neuron findings ( e. g. brisk reflexes, babinski reflex, hoffman ' s reflex, increased muscle tone ), or both. motor neuron diseases are seen both in children and adults. those that affect children tend to be inherited or familial, and their symptoms are either present at birth or appear before learning to walk. those that affect adults tend to appear after age 40. the clinical course depends on the specific disease, but most progress or worsen over the course of months. some are fatal ( e. g. als ), while others are not ( e. g. pls ). patterns of weakness various patterns of muscle weakness occur in different motor neuron diseases. weakness can be symmetric or asymmetric, and it can occur in body parts that are distal, proximal, or both. according to statland et al., there are three main weakness patterns that are seen in motor neuron diseases, which are : asymmetric distal weakness without sensory loss ( e. g. als, pls, pma, mma ) symmetric weakness without sensory loss ( e. g. pma, pls ) symmetric focal midline proximal weakness ( neck, trunk, bulbar involvement ; e. g. als, pbp, pls ) lower and upper motor neuron findings motor neuron diseases are on a spectrum in terms of upper and lower motor neuron involvement. some have just lower or upper motor neuron findings, while others have a mix of both. lower motor neuron ( lmn ) findings include muscle atrophy and fasciculations, and upper motor neuron ( umn ) findings include hyperreflexia, spasticity, muscle spasm, and abnormal reflexes. pure upper motor neuron diseases, or those with just umn findings, include pls. pure lower motor neuron diseases, or those with just lmn findings, include pma. motor neuron diseases with both umn and lmn findings include both familial and sporadic als. causes most cases are sporadic and their causes are usually not known. it is thought that environmental, toxic, viral, or genetic factors may be involved. dna damage tar dna - binding protein 43 ( tdp - 43 ), is a critical component of the non - homo