thus, chemical reactions can occur faster and the reactivity increases down the group. electronegativity electronegativity is a chemical property that describes the tendency of an atom or a functional group to attract electrons ( or electron density ) towards itself. if the bond between sodium and chlorine in sodium chloride were covalent, the pair of shared electrons would be attracted to the chlorine because the effective nuclear charge on the outer electrons is + 7 in chlorine but is only + 1 in sodium. the electron pair is attracted so close to the chlorine atom that they are practically transferred to the chlorine atom ( an ionic bond ). however, if the sodium atom was replaced by a lithium atom, the electrons will not be attracted as close to the chlorine atom as before because the lithium atom is smaller, making the electron pair more strongly attracted to the closer effective nuclear charge from lithium. hence, the larger alkali metal atoms ( further down the group ) will be less electronegative as the bonding pair is less strongly attracted towards them. as mentioned previously, francium is expected to be an exception. because of the higher electronegativity of lithium, some of its compounds have a more covalent character. for example, lithium iodide ( li i ) will dissolve in organic solvents, a property of most covalent compounds. lithium fluoride ( lif ) is the only alkali halide that is not soluble in water, and lithium hydroxide ( lioh ) is the only alkali metal hydroxide that is not deliquescent. melting and boiling points the melting point of a substance is the point where it changes state from solid to liquid while the boiling point of a substance ( in liquid state ) is the point where the vapour pressure of the liquid equals the environmental pressure surrounding the liquid and all the liquid changes state to gas. as a metal is heated to its melting point, the metallic bonds keeping the atoms in place weaken so that the atoms can move around, and the metallic bonds eventually break completely at the metal ' s boiling point. therefore, the falling melting and boiling points of the alkali metals indicate that the strength of the metallic bonds of the alkali metals decreases down the group. this is because metal atoms are held together by the electromagnetic attraction from the positive ions to the delocalised electrons. as the atoms increase in size going down the group ( because their atomic radius increases ), the nuclei of the ions move further away from the delocalised