. in 1998, john howard ' s coalition debated the issue in the leadup to the 1998 northern territory statehood referendum, and stated in a campaign release that it would " pursue incorporation of the ashmore & cartier islands into the northern territory before or at the time of statehood ". however, these efforts did not lead to any changes. environment and protection the ashmore reef marine park and cartier island marine park are both classed as strict nature reserves ( iucn ia ) and protect biodiverse areas of significant and international importance, as well as cultural heritage. cartier island is an unvegetated sand island, with access prohibited because of the risk of unexploded ordnances. there are no ports or harbours, only offshore anchorage. today, all the wells in the territory are infected with cholera or contaminated and undrinkable. the australian border force vessel is stationed off the reef for up to 300 days per year. the islands are also visited by seasonal caretakers and occasional scientific researchers. economy the area around the ashmore and cartier islands has been a traditional fishing ground of indonesian fishermen for centuries, and continues. in the 1850s, american whalers operated in the region. outside of fishing, the islands were historically used as sources of guano, beche - de - mer, trochus and tortoiseshell. mining of phosphate deposits took place on ashmore island in the latter half of the 19th century. petroleum extraction activities take place at the jabiru and challis oil fields, which are adjacent to the territory, and which are administered by the northern territory ' s department of mines and energy on behalf of the commonwealth. migration as ashmore reef is the closest point of australian territory to indonesia, it was a popular target for people smugglers transporting asylum seekers en route to australia. once they had landed on ashmore island, asylum seekers could claim to have entered australian migration zone and request to be processed as refugees. the use of ashmore island for this purpose created great notoriety during late 2001, when refugee arrivals became a major political issue in australia. the australian government argued that as australia was not the country of first asylum for these " boat people ", australia did not have a responsibility to accept them. a number of things were done to discourage the use of the territory for this purpose, such as attempting to have the people smugglers arrested in indonesia ; the so - called pacific solution of processing them in third countries ; the boarding and forced turnaround of the boats by australian military forces ; and finally