three, a person became " lopsided ". bell considered a humanist to be a person who cannot rightly ignore the other ways of knowing. however, humanism, like agnosticism, was also temporal, and would eventually lead to either scientific materialism or theism. he lays out the following thesis : truth cannot be discovered by reasoning on the evidence of scientific data alone. modern peoples ' dissatisfaction with life is the result of depending on such incomplete data. our ability to reason is not a way to discover truth but rather a way to organize our knowledge and experiences somewhat sensibly. without a full, human perception of the world, one ' s reason tends to lead them in the wrong direction. beyond what can be measured with scientific tools, there are other types of perception, such as one ' s ability know another human through loving. one ' s loves cannot be dissected and logged in a scientific journal, but we know them far better than we know the surface of the sun. they show us an undefinable reality that is nevertheless intimate and personal, and they reveal qualities lovelier and truer than detached facts can provide. to be religious, in the christian sense, is to live for the whole of reality ( god ) rather than for a small part ( gods ). only by treating this whole of reality as a person — good and true and perfect — rather than an impersonal force, can we come closer to the truth. an ultimate person can be loved, but a cosmic force cannot. a scientist can only discover peripheral truths, but a lover is able to get at the truth. there are many reasons to believe in god but they are not sufficient for an agnostic to become a theist. it is not enough to believe in an ancient holy book, even though when it is accurately analyzed without bias, it proves to be more trustworthy and admirable than what we are taught in school. neither is it enough to realize how probable it is that a personal god would have to show human beings how to live, considering they have so much trouble on their own. nor is it enough to believe for the reason that, throughout history, millions of people have arrived at this wholeness of reality only through religious experience. the aforementioned reasons may warm one toward religion, but they fall short of convincing. however, if one presupposes that god is in fact a knowable, loving person, as an experiment, and then lives according that religion, he or she will suddenly come face to face