press, 2003. johnson, mary. ( 2000 ). make them go away : clint eastwood, christopher reeve & the case against disability rights. louisville, ky : the advocado press. mayer, arlene. ( 1992 ). the history of the americans with disabilities act : a movement perspective. available online at the disability rights education & defense fund website o ' brien, ruth, ed. voices from the edge : narratives about the americans with disabilities act. new york : oxford, 2004. pletcher, david and ashlee russeau - pletcher. history of the civil rights movement for the physically disabled schall, carol m. ( jun 1998 ). the americans with disabilities act — are we keeping our promise? an analysis of the effect of the ada on the employment of persons with disabilities. journal of vocational rehabilitation, v10 n3 pp. 191 – 203. schwochau, susan & blanck, peter david. the economics of the americans with disabilities act, part iii : does the ada disable the disabled? berkeley journal of employment & labor law [ vol. 21 : 271 ] switzer, jacqueline vaughn. disabled rights : american disability policy and the fight for equality. washington, d. c. : georgetown university press, 2003. weber, mark c. disability harassment. new york : nyu press, 2007. external links department of labor ada page equal employment opportunity commission ada page as codified in 42 u. s. c. chapter 126 of the united states code from the us house of representatives as codified in 42 u. s. c. chapter 126 of the united states code from the lii americans with disabilities act of 1990 ( pdf / details ) as amended in the gpo statute compilations collection family network on disabilities fndusa. org — florida parent training and information center funded by doed offices of special education programs ( osep ) lainey feingold ' s global law and policy : united states – federal ( national ) 101st united states congress 1990 in american law anti - discrimination law in the united states civil rights in the united states disability in law united states federal civil rights legislation united states federal disability legislation