to be winning the space race by beating the us to firsts, but its early lead was overtaken by the us gemini program and soviet failure to develop the n1 launcher, which would have been comparable to the saturn v. the soviets tried to beat the us to return lunar material to the earth by means of uncrewed probes. on july 13, three days before apollo 11 ' s launch, the soviet union launched luna 15, which reached lunar orbit before apollo 11. during descent, a malfunction caused luna 15 to crash in mare crisium about two hours before armstrong and aldrin took off from the moon ' s surface to begin their voyage home. the nuffield radio astronomy laboratories radio telescope in england recorded transmissions from luna 15 during its descent, and these were released in july 2009 for the 40th anniversary of apollo 11. personnel prime crew the initial crew assignment of commander neil armstrong, command module pilot ( cmp ) jim lovell, and lunar module pilot ( lmp ) buzz aldrin on the backup crew for apollo 9 was officially announced on november 20, 1967. lovell and aldrin had previously flown together as the crew of gemini 12. due to design and manufacturing delays in the lm, apollo 8 and apollo 9 swapped prime and backup crews, and armstrong ' s crew became the backup for apollo 8. based on the normal crew rotation scheme, armstrong was then expected to command apollo 11. there would be one change. michael collins, the cmp on the apollo 8 crew, began experiencing trouble with his legs. doctors diagnosed the problem as a bony growth between his fifth and sixth vertebrae, requiring surgery. lovell took his place on the apollo 8 crew, and when collins recovered he joined armstrong ' s crew as cmp. in the meantime, fred haise filled in as backup lmp, and aldrin as backup cmp for apollo 8. apollo 11 was the second american mission where all the crew members had prior spaceflight experience, the first being apollo 10. the next was sts - 26 in 1988. deke slayton gave armstrong the option to replace aldrin with lovell, since some thought aldrin was difficult to work with. armstrong had no issues working with aldrin but thought it over for a day before declining. he thought lovell deserved to command his own mission ( eventually apollo 13 ). the apollo 11 prime crew had none of the close cheerful camaraderie characterized by that of apollo 12. instead, they forged an amiable working