1509, the nobleman diogo lopes de sequeira was sent with a fleet to southeast asia, to seek an agreement with sultan mahmud shah of malacca, but failed and returned to portugal. to jorge de aguiar was given the region between the cape of good hope and gujarat. he was succeeded by duarte de lemos, but left for cochin and then for portugal, leaving his fleet to afonso. conquest of goa, 1510 in january 1510, obeying the orders from the king and aware of the absence of the zamorin, afonso advanced on calicut. the attack was initially successful, but unravelled when marshal coutinho, infuriated by albuquerque ' s success against calicut and desiring glory for himself, attacked the zamorin ' s palace against albuquerque ' s advice, and was ambushed. during the retreat, afonso was badly wounded and was forced to flee to the ships, barely escaping with his life, while coutinho was killed. soon after the failed attack, afonso assembled a fleet of 23 ships and 1200 men. contemporary reports state that he wanted to fight the egyptian mamluk sultanate fleet in the red sea or return to hormuz. however, he had been informed by timoji ( a privateer in the service of the hindu vijayanagara empire ) that it would be easier to fight them in goa, where they had sheltered after the battle of diu, and also of the illness of the sultan yusuf adil shah, and war between the deccan sultanates. so he relied on surprise in the capture of goa from the sultanate of bijapur. a first assault took place in goa from 4 march to 20 may 1510. after the initial occupation, feeling unable to hold the city given the poor condition of its fortifications, the cooling of hindu residents ' support and insubordination among his ranks following an attack by ismail adil shah, afonso refused a truce offered by the sultan and abandoned the city in august. his fleet was scattered, and a palace revolt in kochi hindered his recovery, so he headed to fort anjediva. new ships arrived from portugal, which were intended for the nobleman diogo mendes de vasconcelos at malacca, who had been given a rival command of the region. three months later, on 25 november afonso reappeared at goa with a renovated fleet. diogo mendes de vasconcelos was compelled to accompany him with the reinforcements