another attempt to impose the principle of taxation by parliament. in december 1773, a group called the sons of liberty disguised as mohawk natives dumped 342 crates of tea into boston harbor, an event later known as the boston tea party. the british parliament responded by passing the so - called intolerable acts, aimed specifically at massachusetts, although many colonists and members of the whig opposition considered them a threat to liberty in general. this led to increased sympathy for the patriot cause locally, in british parliament, and in the london press. break with the british crown throughout the 18th century, the elected lower houses in the colonial legislatures gradually wrested power from their royal governors. dominated by smaller landowners and merchants, these assemblies now established ad - hoc provincial legislatures, variously called congresses, conventions, and conferences, effectively replacing royal control. with the exception of georgia, twelve colonies sent representatives to the first continental congress to agree on a unified response to the crisis. many of the delegates feared that an all - out boycott would result in war and sent a petition to the king calling for the repeal of the intolerable acts. however, after some debate, on september 17, 1774, congress endorsed the massachusetts suffolk resolves and on october 20 passed the continental association ; based on a draft prepared by the first virginia convention in august, the association instituted economic sanctions and a full boycott of goods against britain. while denying its authority over internal american affairs, a faction led by james duane and future loyalist joseph galloway insisted congress recognize parliament ' s right to regulate colonial trade. expecting concessions by the north administration, congress authorized the extralegal committees and conventions of the colonial legislatures to enforce the boycott ; this succeeded in reducing british imports by 97 % from 1774 to 1775. however, on february 9 parliament declared massachusetts to be in a state of rebellion and instituted a blockade of the colony. in july, the restraining acts limited colonial trade with the british west indies and britain and barred new england ships from the newfoundland cod fisheries. the increase in tension led to a scramble for control of militia stores, which each assembly was legally obliged to maintain for defense. on april 19, a british attempt to secure the concord arsenal culminated in the battles of lexington and concord, which began the revolutionary war. political reactions after the patriot victory at concord, moderates in congress led by john dickinson drafted the olive branch petition, offering to accept royal authority in return for george iii mediating in the dispute. however, since the petition was immediately followed by the declaration of the causes and necessity of taking up arms, colonial secretary lord