the automobile into american society. decreased costs of production allowed the cost of the model t to fall within the budget of the american middle class. in 1908, the price of a model t was around $ 825, and by 1912 it had decreased to around $ 575. this price reduction is comparable to a reduction from $ 15, 000 to $ 10, 000 in dollar terms from the year 2000. in 1914, an assembly line worker could buy a model t with four months ' pay. ford ' s complex safety procedures — especially assigning each worker to a specific location instead of allowing them to roam about — dramatically reduced the rate of injury. the combination of high wages and high efficiency is called " fordism ", and was copied by most major industries. the efficiency gains from the assembly line also coincided with the take - off of the united states. the assembly line forced workers to work at a certain pace with very repetitive motions which led to more output per worker while other countries were using less productive methods. in the automotive industry, its success was dominating, and quickly spread worldwide. ford france and ford britain in 1911, ford denmark 1923, ford germany and ford japan 1925 ; in 1919, vulcan ( southport, lancashire ) was the first native european manufacturer to adopt it. soon, companies had to have assembly lines, or risk going broke by not being able to compete ; by 1930, 250 companies which did not had disappeared. the massive demand for military hardware in world war ii prompted assembly - line techniques in shipbuilding and aircraft production. thousands of liberty ships were built making extensive use of prefabrication, enabling ship assembly to be completed in weeks or even days. after having produced fewer than 3, 000 planes for the united states military in 1939, american aircraft manufacturers built over 300, 000 planes in world war ii. vultee pioneered the use of the powered assembly line for aircraft manufacturing. other companies quickly followed. as william s. knudsen ( having worked at ford, gm and the national defense advisory commission ) observed, " we won because we smothered the enemy in an avalanche of production, the like of which he had never seen, nor dreamed possible. " improved working conditions in his 1922 autobiography, henry ford mentions several benefits of the assembly line including : workers do not do any heavy lifting. no stooping or bending over. no special training was required. there are jobs that almost anyone can do. provided employment to immigrants. the gains in productivity allowed ford to increase worker pay from $ 1. 50 per day to $