by the mouth of the aarhus river, right where the city center is today. it quickly became a hub for sea - going trade due to its position on intersecting trade routes in the danish straits and the fertile countryside. the trade, however, was not nearly as prominent as that in ribe and hedeby during the viking age, and it was primarily linked to norway as evidenced by archaeological finds. a shipbuilding yard from the viking age was uncovered upriver in 2002 by archaeologists. it was located at a place formerly known as snekkeeng, or snekke meadow in english ( ' snekke ' is a type of longship ), east of the brabrand lake close to viby, and it was in use for more than 400 years from the late 700s till around the mid - 1200s. archaeological evidence indicates that aarhus was a town as early as the last quarter of the 8th century. discoveries after a 2003 archaeological dig included half - buried longhouses, firepits, glass pearls and a road dated to the late 700s. several excavations in the inner city since the 1960s have revealed wells, streets, homes and workshops, and inside the buildings and adjoining archaeological layers, everyday utensils like combs, jewellery and basic multi - purpose tools from approximately the year 900 have been unearthed. the early town was fortified with defensive earthen ramparts in the first part of the 900s, possibly in the year 934 on order from king gorm the old. the fortifications were later improved and expanded by his son harald bluetooth, encircling the settlement much like the defence structures found at viking ring fortresses elsewhere. together with the town ' s geographical placement, this suggests that aros became an important military centre in the viking age. there are also strong indications of a former royal residence from the same period in viby, a few kilometres south of the aarhus city centre. the centre of aarhus was originally a pagan burial site until aarhus ' s first christian church, holy trinity church, a timber structure, was built upon it during the reign of frode, king of jutland, around 900. the bishopric of aarhus dates back to at least 948 when adam of bremen reported that the missionary bishop reginbrand of aros attended the synod of ingelheim in germany, but the late viking age during the christianization of scandinavia was a turbulent and violent time with several naval attacks on the town, such as harald hardrada ' s assault around 1050, when the holy trinity church was