a product needs to be re - designed for mass production. impacts overall, assistive technology aims to allow disabled people to " participate more fully in all aspects of life ( home, school, and community ) " and increases their opportunities for " education, social interactions, and potential for meaningful employment ". it creates greater independence and control for disabled individuals. for example, in one study of 1, 342 infants, toddlers and preschoolers, all with some kind of developmental, physical, sensory, or cognitive disability, the use of assistive technology created improvements in child development. these included improvements in " cognitive, social, communication, literacy, motor, adaptive, and increases in engagement in learning activities ". additionally, it has been found to lighten caregiver load. both family and professional caregivers benefit from assistive technology. through its use, the time that a family member or friend would need to care for a patient significantly decreases. however, studies show that care time for a professional caregiver increases when assistive technology is used. nonetheless, their work load is significantly easier as the assistive technology frees them of having to perform certain tasks. there are several platforms that use machine learning to identify the appropriate assistive device to suggest to patients, making assistive devices more accessible. history in 1988 the national institute on disability and rehabilitation research, nidrr, awarded gaulladet university a grant for the project " robotic finger spelling hand for communication and access to text by deaf - blind persons ". researchers at the university developed and tested a robotic hand. although it was never commercialized the concept is relevant for current and future research. since this grant, many others have been written. nidrr funded research appears to be moving from the fabrication of robotic arms that can be used by disabled persons to perform daily activities, to developing robotics that assist with therapy in the hopes of achieving long - term performance gains. if there is success in development of robotics, these mass - marketed products could assist tomorrow ' s longer - living elderly individuals enough to postpone nursing home stays. " jim osborn, executive director of the quality of life technology center, told a 2007 gathering of long - term care providers that if such advances could delay all nursing home admissions by a month, societal savings could be $ 1 billion monthly ". shortage of both paid personal assistants and available family members makes artificial assistance a necessity. see also accessibility assisted living augmentative and alternative communication braille technology design for all ( in ict ) disability flag durable medical equipment matching person