##my with the dharmic faiths. in contrast, western alchemy developed its philosophical system mostly independent of but influenced by various western religions. it is still an open question whether these three strands share a common origin, or to what extent they influenced each other. hellenistic egypt the start of western alchemy may generally be traced to ancient and hellenistic egypt, where the city of alexandria was a center of alchemical knowledge, and retained its pre - eminence through most of the greek and roman periods. following the work of andre - jean festugiere, modern scholars see alchemical practice in the roman empire as originating from the egyptian goldsmith ' s art, greek philosophy and different religious traditions. tracing the origins of the alchemical art in egypt is complicated by the pseudepigraphic nature of texts from the greek alchemical corpus. the treatises of zosimos of panopolis, the earliest historically attested author ( fl. c. 300 ad ), can help in situating the other authors. zosimus based his work on that of older alchemical authors, such as mary the jewess, pseudo - democritus, and agathodaimon, but very little is known about any of these authors. the most complete of their works, the four books of pseudo - democritus, were probably written in the first century ad. recent scholarship tends to emphasize the testimony of zosimus, who traced the alchemical arts back to egyptian metallurgical and ceremonial practices. it has also been argued that early alchemical writers borrowed the vocabulary of greek philosophical schools but did not implement any of its doctrines in a systematic way. zosimos of panopolis wrote in the final abstinence ( also known as the " final count " ). zosimos explains that the ancient practice of " tinctures " ( the technical greek name for the alchemical arts ) had been taken over by certain " demons " who taught the art only to those who offered them sacrifices. since zosimos also called the demons " the guardians of places " (, ) and those who offered them sacrifices " priests " (, ), it is fairly clear that he was referring to the gods of egypt and their priests. while critical of the kind of alchemy he associated with the egyptian priests and their followers, zosimos nonetheless saw the tradition ' s recent past as rooted in the rites of the egyptian temples. mythology – zosimos of panopolis asserted that alchemy dated back to