##thera. aphrodite took on inanna - ishtar ' s associations with sexuality and procreation. furthermore, she was known as ourania ( ουρανια ), which means " heavenly ", a title corresponding to inanna ' s role as the queen of heaven. early artistic and literary portrayals of aphrodite are extremely similar on inanna - ishtar. like inanna - ishtar, aphrodite was also a warrior goddess ; the second - century ad greek geographer pausanias records that, in sparta, aphrodite was worshipped as aphrodite areia, which means " warlike ". he also mentions that aphrodite ' s most ancient cult statues in sparta and on cythera showed her bearing arms. modern scholars note that aphrodite ' s warrior - goddess aspects appear in the oldest strata of her worship and see it as an indication of her near eastern origins. nineteenth century classical scholars had a general aversion to the idea that ancient greek religion was at all influenced by the cultures of the near east, but, even friedrich gottlieb welcker, who argued that near eastern influence on greek culture was largely confined to material culture, admitted that aphrodite was clearly of phoenician origin. the significant influence of near eastern culture on early greek religion in general, and on the cult of aphrodite in particular, is now widely recognized as dating to a period of orientalization during the eighth century bc, when archaic greece was on the fringes of the neo - assyrian empire. indo - european dawn goddess some early comparative mythologists opposed to the idea of a near eastern origin argued that aphrodite originated as an aspect of the greek dawn goddess eos and that she was therefore ultimately derived from the proto - indo - european dawn goddess * haeusos ( properly greek eos, latin aurora, sanskrit ushas ). most modern scholars have now rejected the notion of a purely indo - european aphrodite, but it is possible that aphrodite, originally a semitic deity, may have been influenced by the indo - european dawn goddess. both aphrodite and eos were known for their erotic beauty and aggressive sexuality and both had relationships with mortal lovers. both goddesses were associated with the colors red, white, and gold. michael janda etymologizes aphrodite ' s name as an epithet of eos meaning " she