its japanese owners for use outside japan since at least the 1960s, the practice became well - established in the united states in the late 1970s to early 1980s, when such tv series as gatchaman and captain harlock were licensed from their japanese parent companies for distribution in the us market. the trend towards american distribution of anime continued into the 1980s with the licensing of titles such as voltron and the ' creation ' of new series such as robotech through the use of source material from several original series. in the early 1990s, several companies began to experiment with the licensing of less children - oriented material. some, such as a. d. vision, and central park media and its imprints, achieved fairly substantial commercial success and went on to become major players in the now very lucrative american anime market. others, such as animeigo, achieved limited success. many companies created directly by japanese parent companies did not do as well, most releasing only one or two titles before completing their american operations. licenses are expensive, often hundreds of thousands of dollars for one series and tens of thousands for one movie. the prices vary widely ; for example, jinki : extend cost only $ 91, 000 to license while kurau phantom memory cost $ 960, 000. simulcast internet streaming rights can be cheaper, with prices around $ 1, 000 – 2, 000 an episode, but can also be more expensive, with some series costing more than per episode. the anime market for the united states was worth approximately $ 2. 74 billion in 2009. dubbed animation began airing in the united states in 2000 on networks like the wb and cartoon network ' s adult swim. in 2005, this resulted in five of the top ten anime titles having previously aired on cartoon network. as a part of localization, some editing of cultural references may occur to better follow the references of the non - japanese culture. the cost of english localization averages us $ 10, 000 per episode. the industry has been subject to both praise and condemnation for fansubs, the addition of unlicensed and unauthorized subtitled translations of anime series or films. fansubs, which were originally distributed on vhs bootlegged cassettes in the 1980s, have been freely available and disseminated online since the 1990s. since this practice raises concerns for copyright and piracy issues, fansubbers tend to adhere to an unwritten moral code to destroy or no longer distribute an anime once an official translated or subtitled version becomes licensed. they also try to encourage viewers to buy an official copy of the release