to take it as a foreign language, but until recently, it was usually not considered a creditable foreign language elective. asl users, however, have a very distinct culture, and they interact very differently when they talk. their facial expressions and hand movements reflect what they are communicating. they also have their own sentence structure, which sets the language apart. american sign language is now being accepted by many colleges as a language eligible for foreign language course credit ; many states are making it mandatory to accept it as such. in some states however, this is only true with regard to high school coursework. history prior to the birth of asl, sign language had been used by various communities in the united states. in the united states, as elsewhere in the world, hearing families with deaf children have historically employed ad hoc home sign, which often reaches much higher levels of sophistication than gestures used by hearing people in spoken conversation. as early as 1541 at first contact by francisco vasquez de coronado, there were reports that the indigenous peoples of the great plains widely spoke a sign language to communicate across vast national and linguistic lines. in the 19th century, a " triangle " of village sign languages developed in new england : one in martha ' s vineyard, massachusetts ; one in henniker, new hampshire, and one in sandy river valley, maine. martha ' s vineyard sign language ( mvsl ), which was particularly important for the history of asl, was used mainly in chilmark, massachusetts. due to intermarriage in the original community of english settlers of the 1690s, and the recessive nature of genetic deafness, chilmark had a high 4 % rate of genetic deafness. mvsl was used even by hearing residents whenever a deaf person was present, and also in some situations where spoken language would be ineffective or inappropriate, such as during church sermons or between boats at sea. asl is thought to have originated in the american school for the deaf ( asd ), founded in hartford, connecticut, in 1817. originally known as the american asylum, at hartford, for the education and instruction of the deaf and dumb, the school was founded by the yale graduate and divinity student thomas hopkins gallaudet. gallaudet, inspired by his success in demonstrating the learning abilities of a young deaf girl alice cogswell, traveled to europe in order to learn deaf pedagogy from european institutions. ultimately, gallaudet chose to adopt the methods of the french institut national de jeunes