carbon with iron produces steel, which is stronger than iron, its primary element. the electrical and thermal conductivity of alloys is usually lower than that of the pure metals. the physical properties, such as density, reactivity, young ' s modulus of an alloy may not differ greatly from those of its base element, but engineering properties such as tensile strength, ductility, and shear strength may be substantially different from those of the constituent materials. this is sometimes a result of the sizes of the atoms in the alloy, because larger atoms exert a compressive force on neighboring atoms, and smaller atoms exert a tensile force on their neighbors, helping the alloy resist deformation. sometimes alloys may exhibit marked differences in behavior even when small amounts of one element are present. for example, impurities in semiconducting ferromagnetic alloys lead to different properties, as first predicted by white, hogan, suhl, tian abrie and nakamura. unlike pure metals, most alloys do not have a single melting point, but a melting range during which the material is a mixture of solid and liquid phases ( a slush ). the temperature at which melting begins is called the solidus, and the temperature when melting is just complete is called the liquidus. for many alloys there is a particular alloy proportion ( in some cases more than one ), called either a eutectic mixture or a peritectic composition, which gives the alloy a unique and low melting point, and no liquid / solid slush transition. heat treatment alloying elements are added to a base metal, to induce hardness, toughness, ductility, or other desired properties. most metals and alloys can be work hardened by creating defects in their crystal structure. these defects are created during plastic deformation by hammering, bending, extruding, et cetera, and are permanent unless the metal is recrystallized. otherwise, some alloys can also have their properties altered by heat treatment. nearly all metals can be softened by annealing, which recrystallizes the alloy and repairs the defects, but not as many can be hardened by controlled heating and cooling. many alloys of aluminium, copper, magnesium, titanium, and nickel can be strengthened to some degree by some method of heat treatment, but few respond to this to the same degree as does steel. the base metal iron of the iron - carbon alloy known as steel, undergoes a change in the arrangement ( allotropy ) of the atoms of its crystal matrix at a certain temperature ( usually between and