and pigs. poultry, such as ducks, geese, and pigeons, were captured in nets and bred on farms, where they were force - fed with dough to fatten them. the nile provided a plentiful source of fish. bees were also domesticated from at least the old kingdom, and provided both honey and wax. the ancient egyptians used donkeys and oxen as beasts of burden, and they were responsible for plowing the fields and trampling seed into the soil. the slaughter of a fattened ox was also a central part of an offering ritual. horses were introduced by the hyksos in the second intermediate period. camels, although known from the new kingdom, were not used as beasts of burden until the late period. there is also evidence to suggest that elephants were briefly used in the late period but largely abandoned due to lack of grazing land. cats, dogs, and monkeys were common family pets, while more exotic pets imported from the heart of africa, such as sub - saharan african lions, were reserved for royalty. herodotus observed that the egyptians were the only people to keep their animals with them in their houses. during the late period, the worship of the gods in their animal form was extremely popular, such as the cat goddess bastet and the ibis god thoth, and these animals were kept in large numbers for the purpose of ritual sacrifice. natural resources egypt is rich in building and decorative stone, copper and lead ores, gold, and semiprecious stones. these natural resources allowed the ancient egyptians to build monuments, sculpt statues, make tools, and fashion jewelry. embalmers used salts from the wadi natrun for mummification, which also provided the gypsum needed to make plaster. ore - bearing rock formations were found in distant, inhospitable wadis in the eastern desert and the sinai, requiring large, state - controlled expeditions to obtain natural resources found there. there were extensive gold mines in nubia, and one of the first maps known is of a gold mine in this region. the wadi hammamat was a notable source of granite, greywacke, and gold. flint was the first mineral collected and used to make tools, and flint handaxes are the earliest pieces of evidence of habitation in the nile valley. nodules of the mineral were carefully flaked to make blades and arrowheads of moderate hardness and durability even after copper was adopted for this purpose. ancient egyptians were among the first to use minerals such as sulfur