), and he credited it to posidonius ( 135 – 50 bce ). ptolemy may also have offered this explanation in his optics, but the text is obscure. alhazen ' s writings were more widely available in the middle ages than those of these earlier authors, and that probably explains why alhazen received the credit. scientific method an aspect associated with alhazen ' s optical research is related to systemic and methodological reliance on experimentation ( i ' tibar ) ( arabic : اختبار ) and controlled testing in his scientific inquiries. moreover, his experimental directives rested on combining classical physics ( ilm tabi ' i ) with mathematics ( ta ' alim ; geometry in particular ). this mathematical - physical approach to experimental science supported most of his propositions in kitab al - manazir ( the optics ; de aspectibus or perspectivae ) and grounded his theories of vision, light and colour, as well as his research in catoptrics and dioptrics ( the study of the reflection and refraction of light, respectively ). according to matthias schramm, alhazen " was the first to make a systematic use of the method of varying the experimental conditions in a constant and uniform manner, in an experiment showing that the intensity of the light - spot formed by the projection of the moonlight through two small apertures onto a screen diminishes constantly as one of the apertures is gradually blocked up. " g. j. toomer expressed some skepticism regarding schramm ' s view, partly because at the time ( 1964 ) the book of optics had not yet been fully translated from arabic, and toomer was concerned that without context, specific passages might be read anachronistically. while acknowledging alhazen ' s importance in developing experimental techniques, toomer argued that alhazen should not be considered in isolation from other islamic and ancient thinkers. toomer concluded his review by saying that it would not be possible to assess schramm ' s claim that ibn al - haytham was the true founder of modern physics without translating more of alhazen ' s work and fully investigating his influence on later medieval writers. other works on physics optical treatises besides the book of optics, alhazen wrote several other treatises on the same subject, including his risala fi l - daw ( treatise on light ). he investigated the properties of luminance, the rainbow, eclipses, twilight, and moonlight. experiments with mirrors and