hyperbolic functions are viewed as infinite series in their angle argument, the circular ones are just alternating series forms of the hyperbolic functions. this weaving of the two types of angle and function was explained by leonhard euler in introduction to the analysis of the infinite. angles in geography and astronomy in geography, the location of any point on the earth can be identified using a geographic coordinate system. this system specifies the latitude and longitude of any location in terms of angles subtended at the center of the earth, using the equator and ( usually ) the greenwich meridian as references. in astronomy, a given point on the celestial sphere ( that is, the apparent position of an astronomical object ) can be identified using any of several astronomical coordinate systems, where the references vary according to the particular system. astronomers measure the angular separation of two stars by imagining two lines through the center of the earth, each intersecting one of the stars. the angle between those lines and the angular separation between the two stars can be measured. in both geography and astronomy, a sighting direction can be specified in terms of a vertical angle such as altitude / elevation with respect to the horizon as well as the azimuth with respect to north. astronomers also measure objects ' apparent size as an angular diameter. for example, the full moon has an angular diameter of approximately 0. 5° when viewed from earth. one could say, " the moon ' s diameter subtends an angle of half a degree. " the small - angle formula can convert such an angular measurement into a distance / size ratio. other astronomical approximations include : 0. 5° is the approximate diameter of the sun and of the moon as viewed from earth. 1° is the approximate width of the little finger at arm ' s length. 10° is the approximate width of a closed fist at arm ' s length. 20° is the approximate width of a handspan at arm ' s length. these measurements depend on the individual subject, and the above should be treated as rough rule of thumb approximations only. in astronomy, right ascension and declination are usually measured in angular units, expressed in terms of time, based on a 24 - hour day. see also angle measuring instrument angles between flats angular statistics ( mean, standard deviation ) angle bisector angular acceleration angular diameter angular velocity argument ( complex analysis ) astrological aspect central angle clock angle problem decimal degrees dihedral angle exterior angle theorem golden angle great circle distance horn angle inscribed angle irrational angle phase ( waves ) protractor solid angle spherical angle transcendent