. by september raiding parties were looting venetia, but it was probably only in 569 that the julian alps were crossed at the vipava valley ; the eyewitness secundus of non gives the date as 20 or 21 may. the 569 date for the entry into italy is not void of difficulties however, and jorg jarnut believes the conquest of most of venetia had already been completed in 568. according to carlo guido mor, a major difficulty remains in explaining how alboin could have reached milan on 3 september assuming he had passed the border only in the may of the same year. invasion of italy foundation of the duchy of friuli the lombards penetrated into italy without meeting any resistance from the border troops ( milities limitanei ). the byzantine military resources available on the spot were scant and of dubious loyalty, and the border forts may well have been left unmanned. what seems certain is that archaeological excavations have found no sign of violent confrontation in the sites that have been excavated. this agrees with paul the deacon ' s narrative, who speaks of a lombard takeover in friuli " without any hindrance ". the first town to fall into the lombards ' hands was forum iulii ( cividale del friuli ), the seat of the local magister militum. alboin chose this walled town close to the frontier to be capital of the duchy of friuli and made his nephew and shield bearer, gisulf, duke of the region, with the specific duty of defending the borders from byzantine or avar attacks from the east. gisulf obtained from his uncle the right to choose for his duchy those farae, or clans, that he preferred. alboin ' s decision to create a duchy and designate a duke were both important innovations ; until then, the lombards had never had dukes or duchies based on a walled town. the innovation adopted was part of alboin ' s borrowing of roman and ostrogothic administrative models, as in late antiquity the comes civitatis ( city count ) was the main local authority, with full administrative powers in his region. but the shift from count ( comes ) to duke ( dux ) and from county ( comitatus ) to duchy ( ducatus ) also signalled the progressive militarization of italy. the selection of a fortified town as the centre for the new duchy was also an important change from the time in pannonia, for while urbanized settlements had previously