for revolutionizing the german war machine. the myth began to fall apart in the 1980s, when the armaments miracle was attributed to nazi propaganda. adam tooze wrote in the wages of destruction that the idea that speer was an apolitical technocrat was " absurd ". martin kitchen, writing in speer : hitler ' s architect, stated that much of the increase in germany ' s arms production was actually due to systems instituted by speer ' s predecessor ( fritz todt ) and furthermore that speer was intimately involved in the " final solution ". early years and personal life speer was born in mannheim, into an upper - middle - class family. he was the second of three sons of luise mathilde wilhelmine ( hommel ) and albert friedrich speer. in 1918, the family leased their mannheim residence and moved to a home they had in heidelberg. henry t. king, deputy prosecutor at the nuremberg trials who later wrote a book about speer said, " love and warmth were lacking in the household of speer ' s youth. " his brothers, ernst and hermann, bullied him throughout his childhood. speer was active in sports, taking up skiing and mountaineering. he followed in the footsteps of his father and grandfather and studied architecture. speer began his architectural studies at the university of karlsruhe instead of a more highly acclaimed institution because the hyperinflation crisis of 1923 limited his parents ' income. in 1924, when the crisis had abated, he transferred to the " much more reputable " technical university of munich. in 1925, he transferred again, this time to the technical university of berlin where he studied under heinrich tessenow, whom speer greatly admired. after passing his exams in 1927, speer became tessenow ' s assistant, a high honor for a man of 22. as such, speer taught some of his classes while continuing his own postgraduate studies. in munich speer began a close friendship, ultimately spanning over 50 years, with rudolf wolters, who also studied under tessenow. in mid - 1922, speer began courting margarete ( margret ) weber ( 1905 – 1987 ), the daughter of a successful craftsman who employed 50 workers. the relationship was frowned upon by speer ' s class - conscious mother, who felt the webers were socially inferior. despite this opposition, the two married in berlin on 28 august 1928 ; seven years elapsed before margarete was invited to stay at her in - laws ' home. the couple