marselisborg. many of its cultural institutions were also established at this time such as aarhus theatre ( 1900 ), the original state library ( 1902 ), aarhus university ( 1928 ) and several hospitals. second world war on 9 april 1940, nazi germany invaded denmark, occupying aarhus the following day ; the occuption lasted for five years. this was a destructive period with major disasters, loss of life and economic depression. the port of aarhus became a hub for supplies to the baltics and norway, while the surrounding rail network supplied the atlantic wall in west jutland and cargo headed for germany. combined, these factors resulted in a strong german presence, especially in 1944 – 45. small resistance groups first appeared in 1941 – 42 but the first to co - ordinate with the freedom council was the samsing group, responsible for most operations from early 1943. the samsing group, along with others in and around aarhus, was dismantled in june 1944 when grethe " thora " bartram turned her family and acquaintances over to german authorities. in response, requests for assistance were sent to contacts in england and in october 1944 the royal air force bombed the gestapo headquarters successfully destroying archives and obstructing the ongoing investigation. in the summer of 1944 the copenhagen - based resistance group holger danske helped establish the 5 kolonne group and an soe agent arrived from england to liaison with the l - groups. subsequently, resistance operations escalated which was countered with schalburgtage terror operations by the peter group. the increasingly destructive occupation was compounded when an ammunition barge exploded in july 1944, destroying much of the harbour area. on 5 may 1945 german forces in denmark surrendered but during the transitional period fighting broke out resulting in 22 dead. on 8 may the british royal dragoons entered the city. post - world war ii years in the 1970s and 1980s the city entered a period of rapid economic growth and the service sector overtook trade, industry and crafts as the leading sector of employment for the first time. workers gradually began commuting to the city from most of east and central jutland as the region became more interconnected. the student population tripled between 1965 and 1977 turning the city into a danish centre of research and education. the growing and comparably young population initiated a period of creativity and optimism ; gaffa and the kaospilot school were founded in 1983 and 1991 respectively, and aarhus was at the centre of a renaissance in danish rock and pop music launching bands and musicians such as tv2, gnags, thomas