##u no hana ( japan, 2013 ). live - action blending live - action / animation is a technique combining hand - drawn characters into live action shots or live - action actors into animated shots. one of the earlier uses was in koko the clown when koko was drawn over live - action footage. walt disney and ub iwerks created a series of alice comedies ( 1923 – 1927 ), in which a live - action girl enters an animated world. other examples include allegro non troppo ( italy, 1976 ), who framed roger rabbit ( us, 1988 ), volere volare ( italy 1991 ), space jam ( us, 1996 ) and osmosis jones ( us, 2001 ). stop motion stop - motion animation is used to describe animation created by physically manipulating real - world objects and photographing them one frame of film at a time to create the illusion of movement. there are many different types of stop - motion animation, usually named after the materials used to create the animation. computer software is widely available to create this type of animation ; traditional stop - motion animation is usually less expensive but more time - consuming to produce than current computer animation. puppet animation typically involves stop - motion puppet figures interacting in a constructed environment, in contrast to real - world interaction in model animation. the puppets generally have an armature inside of them to keep them still and steady to constrain their motion to particular joints. examples include the tale of the fox ( france, 1937 ), the nightmare before christmas ( us, 1993 ), corpse bride ( us, 2005 ), coraline ( us, 2009 ), the films of jiri trnka and the adult animated sketch - comedy television series robot chicken ( us, 2005 – present ). puppetoon created using techniques developed by george pal, are puppet - animated films that typically use a different version of a puppet for different frames, rather than manipulating one existing puppet. clay animation or plasticine animation ( often called claymation, which, however, is a trademarked name ). it uses figures made of clay or a similar malleable material to create stop - motion animation. the figures may have an armature or wire frame inside, similar to the related puppet animation ( below ), that can be manipulated to pose the figures. alternatively, the figures may be made entirely of clay, in the films of bruce bickford, where clay creatures morph into a variety of different shapes. examples of clay - animated works include the gumby show ( us, 1957 –