( 1844 ) and the reformed episcopal church in north america ( 1873 ). anglo - catholic ( and some broad - church ) anglicans celebrate public liturgy in ways that understand worship to be something very special and of utmost importance. vestments are worn by the clergy, sung settings are often used, and incense may be used. nowadays, in most anglican churches, the eucharist is celebrated in a manner similar to the usage of roman catholics and some lutherans, though, in many churches, more traditional, " pre – vatican ii " models of worship are common ( e. g., an " eastward orientation " at the altar ). whilst many anglo - catholics derive much of their liturgical practice from that of the pre - reformation english church, others more closely follow traditional roman catholic practices. the eucharist may sometimes be celebrated in the form known as high mass, with a priest, deacon and subdeacon ( usually actually a layman ) dressed in traditional vestments, with incense and sanctus bells and prayers adapted from the roman missal or other sources by the celebrant. such churches may also have forms of eucharistic adoration such as benediction of the blessed sacrament. in terms of personal piety, some anglicans may recite the rosary and angelus, be involved in a devotional society dedicated to " our lady " ( the blessed virgin mary ) and seek the intercession of the saints. in recent decades, the prayer books of several provinces have, out of deference to a greater agreement with eastern conciliarism ( and a perceived greater respect accorded anglicanism by eastern orthodoxy than by roman catholicism ), instituted a number of historically eastern and oriental orthodox elements in their liturgies, including introduction of the trisagion and deletion of the filioque clause from the nicene creed. for their part, those evangelical ( and some broad - church ) anglicans who emphasise the more protestant aspects of the church stress the reformation theme of salvation by grace through faith. they emphasise the two dominical sacraments of baptism and eucharist, viewing the other five as " lesser rites ". some evangelical anglicans may even tend to take the inerrancy of scripture literally, adopting the view of article vi that it contains all things necessary to salvation in an explicit sense. worship in churches influenced by these principles tends to be significantly less elaborate, with greater emphasis on the liturgy of the word ( the reading of the scriptures, the sermon, and the