asterales ( ) is an order of dicotyledonous flowering plants that includes the large family asteraceae ( or compositae ) known for composite flowers made of florets, and ten families related to the asteraceae. while asterids in general are characterized by fused petals, composite flowers consisting of many florets create the false appearance of separate petals ( as found in the rosids ). the order is cosmopolitan ( plants found throughout most of the world including desert and frigid zones ), and includes mostly herbaceous species, although a small number of trees ( such as the lobelia deckenii, the giant lobelia, and dendrosenecio, giant groundsels ) and shrubs are also present. asterales are organisms that seem to have evolved from one common ancestor. asterales share characteristics on morphological and biochemical levels. synapomorphies ( a character that is shared by two or more groups through evolutionary development ) include the presence in the plants of oligosaccharide inulin, a nutrient storage molecule used instead of starch ; and unique stamen morphology. the stamens are usually found around the style, either aggregated densely or fused into a tube, probably an adaptation in association with the plunger ( brush ; or secondary ) pollination that is common among the families of the order, wherein pollen is collected and stored on the length of the pistil. taxonomy the name and order asterales is botanically venerable, dating back to at least 1926 in the hutchinson system of plant taxonomy when it contained only five families, of which only two are retained in the apg iii classification. under the cronquist system of taxonomic classification of flowering plants, asteraceae was the only family in the group, but newer systems ( such as apg ii and apg iii ) have expanded it to 11. in the classification system of rolf dahlgren the asterales were in the superorder asteriflorae ( also called asteranae ). the order asterales currently includes 11 families, the largest of which are the asteraceae, with about 25, 000 species, and the campanulaceae ( bellflowers ), with about 2, 000 species. the remaining families count together for less than 1500 species. the two large families are cosmopolitan, with many of their species found in the northern hemisphere, and the smaller families are usually confined to australia and the adjacent areas, or sometimes south america.