of video works, invitations to exclusive performance art pieces, and the objects left over from conceptual pieces. many of these performances create works that are only understood by the elite who have been educated as to why an idea or video or piece of apparent garbage may be considered art. the marker of status becomes understanding the work instead of necessarily owning it, and the artwork remains an upper - class activity. " with the widespread use of dvd recording technology in the early 2000s, artists, and the gallery system that derives its profits from the sale of artworks, gained an important means of controlling the sale of video and computer artworks in limited editions to collectors. " controversies art has long been controversial, that is to say disliked by some viewers, for a wide variety of reasons, though most pre - modern controversies are dimly recorded, or completely lost to a modern view. iconoclasm is the destruction of art that is disliked for a variety of reasons, including religious ones. aniconism is a general dislike of either all figurative images, or often just religious ones, and has been a thread in many major religions. it has been a crucial factor in the history of islamic art, where depictions of muhammad remain especially controversial. much art has been disliked purely because it depicted or otherwise stood for unpopular rulers, parties or other groups. artistic conventions have often been conservative and taken very seriously by art critics, though often much less so by a wider public. the iconographic content of art could cause controversy, as with late medieval depictions of the new motif of the swoon of the virgin in scenes of the crucifixion of jesus. the last judgment by michelangelo was controversial for various reasons, including breaches of decorum through nudity and the apollo - like pose of christ. the content of much formal art through history was dictated by the patron or commissioner rather than just the artist, but with the advent of romanticism, and economic changes in the production of art, the artists ' vision became the usual determinant of the content of his art, increasing the incidence of controversies, though often reducing their significance. strong incentives for perceived originality and publicity also encouraged artists to court controversy. theodore gericault ' s raft of the medusa ( ), was in part a political commentary on a recent event. edouard manet ' s le dejeuner sur l ' herbe ( 1863 ), was considered scandalous not because of the nude woman, but because she is seated next to men fully dressed in the clothing of the time, rather than in robes of