brazil. the formation of the central american isthmus closed the central american seaway at the end of the pliocene 2. 8 ma ago. the formation of the isthmus resulted in the migration and extinction of many land - living animals, known as the great american interchange, but the closure of the seaway resulted in a " great american schism " as it affected ocean currents, salinity, and temperatures in both the atlantic and pacific. marine organisms on both sides of the isthmus became isolated and either diverged or went extinct. north atlantic geologically, the northern atlantic is the area delimited to the south by two conjugate margins, newfoundland and iberia, and to the north by the arctic eurasian basin. the opening of the northern atlantic closely followed the margins of its predecessor, the iapetus ocean, and spread from the central atlantic in six stages : iberia – newfoundland, porcupine – north america, eurasia – greenland, eurasia – north america. active and inactive spreading systems in this area are marked by the interaction with the iceland hotspot. seafloor spreading led to the extension of the crust and formations of troughs and sedimentary basins. the rockall trough opened between 105 and 84 million years ago although along the rift failed along with one leading into the bay of biscay. spreading began opening the labrador sea around 61 million years ago, continuing until 36 million years ago. geologists distinguish two magmatic phases. one from 62 to 58 million years ago predates the separation of greenland from northern europe while the second from 56 to 52 million years ago happened as the separation occurred. iceland began to form 62 million years ago due to a particularly concentrated mantle plume. large quantities of basalt erupted at this time period are found on baffin island, greenland, the faroe islands, and scotland, with ash falls in western europe acting as a stratigraphic marker. the opening of the north atlantic caused significant uplift of continental crust along the coast. for instance, in spite of 7 km thick basalt, gunnbjorn field in east greenland is the highest point on the island, elevated enough that it exposes older mesozoic sedimentary rocks at its base, similar to old lava fields above sedimentary rocks in the uplifted hebrides of western scotland. the north atlantic ocean contains about 810 seamounts, most of them situated along the mid - atlantic ridge. the ospar database ( convention for the protection of the marine environment of the north -