effectively. scholars such as beth s. benedict advocate not only for bilingualism ( using asl and english training ) but also for early childhood intervention for children who are deaf. york university psychologist ellen bialystok has also campaigned for bilingualism, arguing that those who are bilingual acquire cognitive skills that may help to prevent dementia later in life. most children born to deaf parents are hearing. known as codas ( " children of deaf adults " ), they are often more culturally deaf than deaf children, most of whom are born to hearing parents. unlike many deaf children, codas acquire asl as well as deaf cultural values and behaviors from birth. such bilingual hearing children may be mistakenly labeled as being " slow learners " or as having " language difficulties " because of preferential attitudes towards spoken language. writing systems although there is no well - established writing system for asl, written sign language dates back almost two centuries. the first systematic writing system for a sign language seems to be that of roch - ambroise auguste bebian, developed in 1825. however, written sign language remained marginal among the public. in the 1960s, linguist william stokoe created stokoe notation specifically for asl. it is alphabetic, with a letter or diacritic for every phonemic ( distinctive ) hand shape, orientation, motion, and position, though it lacks any representation of facial expression, and is better suited for individual words than for extended passages of text. stokoe used that system for his 1965 a dictionary of american sign language on linguistic principles. signwriting, proposed in 1974 by valerie sutton, is the first writing system to gain use among the public and the first writing system for sign languages to be included in the unicode standard. signwriting consists of more than 5000 distinct iconic graphs / glyphs. currently, it is in use in many schools for the deaf, particularly in brazil, and has been used in international sign forums with speakers and researchers in more than 40 countries, including brazil, ethiopia, france, germany, italy, portugal, saudi arabia, slovenia, tunisia, and the united states. sutton signwriting has both a printed and an electronically produced form so that persons can use the system anywhere that oral languages are written ( personal letters, newspapers, and media, academic research ). the systematic examination of the international sign writing alphabet ( iswa ) as an equivalent usage structure to the international phonetic alphabet for spoken languages has been proposed. according to some researchers, signwriting is not a phonemic orthography and does not