the nodes. conceptacles are another polyphyletic trait ; they appear in the coralline algae and the hildenbrandiales, as well as the browns. most of the simpler algae are unicellular flagellates or amoeboids, but colonial and nonmotile forms have developed independently among several of the groups. some of the more common organizational levels, more than one of which may occur in the lifecycle of a species, are colonial : small, regular groups of motile cells capsoid : individual non - motile cells embedded in mucilage coccoid : individual non - motile cells with cell walls palmelloid : nonmotile cells embedded in mucilage filamentous : a string of connected nonmotile cells, sometimes branching parenchymatous : cells forming a thallus with partial differentiation of tissues in three lines, even higher levels of organization have been reached, with full tissue differentiation. these are the brown algae, — some of which may reach 50 m in length ( kelps ) — the red algae, and the green algae. the most complex forms are found among the charophyte algae ( see charales and charophyta ), in a lineage that eventually led to the higher land plants. the innovation that defines these nonalgal plants is the presence of female reproductive organs with protective cell layers that protect the zygote and developing embryo. hence, the land plants are referred to as the embryophytes. turfs the term algal turf is commonly used but poorly defined. algal turfs are thick, carpet - like beds of seaweed that retain sediment and compete with foundation species like corals and kelps, and they are usually less than 15 cm tall. such a turf may consist of one or more species, and will generally cover an area in the order of a square metre or more. some common characteristics are listed : algae that form aggregations that have been described as turfs include diatoms, cyanobacteria, chlorophytes, phaeophytes and rhodophytes. turfs are often composed of numerous species at a wide range of spatial scales, but monospecific turfs are frequently reported. turfs can be morphologically highly variable over geographic scales and even within species on local scales and can be difficult to identify in terms of the constituent species. turfs have been defined as short algae, but this has been used to describe height ranges from less