people historically consisted of several tribes. the two main branches were the botr and barnes tribes, who were divided into tribes, and again into sub - tribes. each region of the maghreb contained several tribes ( for example, sanhadja, houara, zenata, masmouda, kutama, awarba, and berghwata ). all these tribes made independent territorial decisions. several amazigh dynasties emerged during the middle ages in the maghreb and other nearby lands. ibn khaldun provides a table summarising the amazigh dynasties of the maghreb region, the zirid, ifranid, maghrawa, almoravid, hammadid, almohad, merinid, abdalwadid, wattasid, meknassa and hafsid dynasties. both of the hammadid and zirid empires as well as the fatimids established their rule in all of the maghreb countries. the zirids ruled land in what is now algeria, tunisia, morocco, libya, spain, malta and italy. the hammadids captured and held important regions such as ouargla, constantine, sfax, susa, algiers, tripoli and fez establishing their rule in every country in the maghreb region. the fatimids which was created and established by the kutama berbers conquered all of north africa as well as sicily and parts of the middle east. following the berber revolt numerous independent states emerged across the maghreb. in algeria the rustamid kingdom was established. the rustamid realm stretched from tafilalt in morocco to the nafusa mountains in libya including south, central and western tunisia therefore including territory in all of the modern day maghreb countries, in the south the rustamid realm expanded to the modern borders of mali and included territory in mauritania. once extending their control over all of the maghreb, part of spain and briefly over sicily, originating from modern algeria, the zirids only controlled modern ifriqiya by the 11th century. the zirids recognized nominal suzerainty of the fatimid caliphs of cairo. el mu ' izz the zirid ruler decided to end this recognition and declared his independence. the zirids also fought against other zenata kingdoms, for example the maghrawa, a berber dynasty originating from algeria and which at one point was a dominant power in the maghreb ruling over much