south asian units that have fixed value : 1 killa = 1 acre 1 ghumaon = 1 acre 1 kanal = 0. 125 acre ( 1 acre = 8 kanal ) 1 decimal = 48. 4 square yards 1 chatak = 180 square feet history circle area in the 5th century bce, hippocrates of chios was the first to show that the area of a disk ( the region enclosed by a circle ) is proportional to the square of its diameter, as part of his quadrature of the lune of hippocrates, but did not identify the constant of proportionality. eudoxus of cnidus, also in the 5th century bce, also found that the area of a disk is proportional to its radius squared. subsequently, book i of euclid ' s elements dealt with equality of areas between two - dimensional figures. the mathematician archimedes used the tools of euclidean geometry to show that the area inside a circle is equal to that of a right triangle whose base has the length of the circle ' s circumference and whose height equals the circle ' s radius, in his book measurement of a circle. ( the circumference is 2r, and the area of a triangle is half the base times the height, yielding the area r2 for the disk. ) archimedes approximated the value of π ( and hence the area of a unit - radius circle ) with his doubling method, in which he inscribed a regular triangle in a circle and noted its area, then doubled the number of sides to give a regular hexagon, then repeatedly doubled the number of sides as the polygon ' s area got closer and closer to that of the circle ( and did the same with circumscribed polygons ). triangle area quadrilateral area in the 7th century ce, brahmagupta developed a formula, now known as brahmagupta ' s formula, for the area of a cyclic quadrilateral ( a quadrilateral inscribed in a circle ) in terms of its sides. in 1842, the german mathematicians carl anton bretschneider and karl georg christian von staudt independently found a formula, known as bretschneider ' s formula, for the area of any quadrilateral. general polygon area the development of cartesian coordinates by rene descartes in the 17th century allowed the development of the surveyor ' s formula for the area of any polygon with known vertex locations by gauss in