##llabus der pflanzenfamilien ( 1892 – 1924 ). in his treatment of liliiflorae the liliineae were a suborder which included both families liliaceae and amaryllidaceae. the liliaceae had eight subfamilies and the amaryllidaceae four. in this rearrangement of liliaceae, with fewer subdivisions, the core liliales were represented as subfamily lilioideae ( with tulipae and scilleae as tribes ), the asparagae were represented as asparagoideae and the allioideae was preserved, representing the alliaceous genera. allieae, agapantheae and gilliesieae were the three tribes within this subfamily. in the amaryllidaceae, there was little change from the bentham & hooker. a similar approach was adopted by wettstein. twentieth century in the twentieth century the wettstein system ( 1901 – 1935 ) placed many of the taxa in an order called ' liliiflorae '. next johannes paulus lotsy ( 1911 ) proposed dividing the liliiflorae into a number of smaller families including asparagaceae. then herbert huber ( 1969, 1977 ), following lotsy ' s example, proposed that the liliiflorae be split into four groups including the ' asparagoid ' liliiflorae. the widely used cronquist system ( 1968 – 1988 ) used the very broadly defined order liliales. these various proposals to separate small groups of genera into more homogeneous families made little impact till that of dahlgren ( 1985 ) incorporating new information including synapomorphy. dahlgren developed huber ' s ideas further and popularised them, with a major deconstruction of existing families into smaller units. they created a new order, calling it asparagales. this was one of five orders within the superorder liliiflorae. where cronquist saw one family, dahlgren saw forty distributed over three orders ( predominantly liliales and asparagales ). over the 1980s, in the context of a more general review of the classification of angiosperms, the liliaceae were subjected to more intense scrutiny. by the end of that decade, the royal botanic gardens at kew, the british museum of natural history and the edinburgh botanical gardens formed a committee to examine the possibility of separating the family at least for the organization of their herbaria. that committee finally recommended