from the mashriq or mesopotamia, the most comprehensible being libyan arabic and the most difficult moroccan arabic. the others such as algerian arabic can be considered in between the two in terms of difficulty. libyan arabic spoken in libya and neighboring countries. tunisian arabic spoken in tunisia and north - eastern algeria algerian arabic spoken in algeria judeo - algerian arabic was spoken by jews in algeria until 1962 moroccan arabic spoken in morocco hassaniya arabic ( 3 million speakers ), spoken in mauritania, western sahara, some parts of the azawad in northern mali, southern morocco and south - western algeria. andalusian arabic, spoken in spain until the 16th century. siculo - arabic ( sicilian arabic ), was spoken in sicily and malta between the end of the 9th century and the end of the 12th century and eventually evolved into the maltese language. maltese, spoken on the island of malta, is the only fully separate standardized language to have originated from an arabic dialect, the extinct siculo - arabic dialect, with independent literary norms. maltese has evolved independently of modern standard arabic and its varieties into a standardized language over the past 800 years in a gradual process of latinisation. maltese is therefore considered an exceptional descendant of arabic that has no diglossic relationship with standard arabic or classical arabic. maltese is different from arabic and other semitic languages since its morphology has been deeply influenced by romance languages, italian and sicilian. it is the only semitic language written in the latin script. in terms of basic everyday language, speakers of maltese are reported to be able to understand less than a third of what is said to them in tunisian arabic, which is related to siculo - arabic, whereas speakers of tunisian are able to understand about 40 % of what is said to them in maltese. this asymmetric intelligibility is considerably lower than the mutual intelligibility found between maghrebi arabic dialects. maltese has its own dialects, with urban varieties of maltese being closer to standard maltese than rural varieties. mesopotamian arabic, spoken by about 41. 2 million people in iraq ( where it is called " aamiyah " ), eastern syria and southwestern iran ( khuzestan ) and in the southeastern of turkey ( in the eastern mediterranean, southeastern anatolia region ) north mesopotamian arabic is a spoken north of the hamrin mountains in iraq, in western iran, northern syria, and in southeastern turkey ( in the eastern mediterranean region, southeastern anatolia region, and southern eastern anatolia region ). judeo - mesopotamian arabic, also known as iraqi jude