albert the bear ( ; 1100 – 18 november 1170 ) was the first margrave of brandenburg from 1157 to his death and was briefly duke of saxony between 1138 and 1142. life albert was the only son of otto, count of ballenstedt, and eilika, daughter of magnus billung, duke of saxony. he inherited his father ' s valuable estates in northern saxony in 1123, and on his mother ' s death, in 1142, succeeded to one - half of the lands of the house of billung. albert was a loyal vassal of his relation, lothar i, duke of saxony, from whom, about 1123, he received the margraviate of lusatia, to the east ; after lothar became king of the germans, he accompanied him on a disastrous expedition to bohemia against the upstart, sobeslav i, duke of bohemia in 1126 at the battle of kulm, where he suffered a short imprisonment. albert ' s entanglements in saxony stemmed from his desire to expand his inherited estates there. after the death of his brother - in - law, henry ii, margrave of the nordmark, who controlled a small area on the elbe called the saxon northern march, in 1128, albert, disappointed at not receiving this fief himself, attacked udo v, count of stade, the heir, and was consequently deprived of lusatia by lothar. udo, however, was said to have been assassinated by servants of albert on 15 march 1130 near aschersleben. in spite of this, albert went to italy in 1132 in the train of the king, and his services there were rewarded in 1134 by the investiture of the northern march, which was again without a ruler. in 1138 conrad iii, the hohenstaufen king of the germans, deprived albert ' s cousin and nemesis, henry the proud, of his saxon duchy, which was awarded to albert if he could take it. after some initial success in his efforts to take possession, albert was driven from saxony, and also from his northern march by a combined force of henry and jaxa of kopenick, and compelled to take refuge in south germany. henry died in 1139 and an arrangement was found. henry ' s son, henry the lion, received the duchy of saxony in 1142. in the same year, albert renounced the saxon duchy and received the counties of weimar and orlamunde. once he was firmly