addition to facilitating the formation of standards in the united states, ansi promotes the use of u. s. standards internationally, advocates u. s. policy and technical positions in international and regional standards organizations, and encourages the adoption of international standards as national standards where appropriate. the institute is the official u. s. representative to the two major international standards organizations, the international organization for standardization ( iso ), as a founding member, and the international electrotechnical commission ( iec ), via the u. s. national committee ( usnc ). ansi participates in almost the entire technical program of both the iso and the iec, and administers many key committees and subgroups. in many instances, u. s. standards are taken forward to iso and iec, through ansi or the usnc, where they are adopted in whole or in part as international standards. adoption of iso and iec standards as american standards increased from 0. 2 % in 1986 to 15. 5 % in may 2012. standards panels the institute administers nine standards panels : ansi homeland defense and security standardization collaborative ( hdssc ) ansi nanotechnology standards panel ( ansi - nsp ) id theft prevention and id management standards panel ( idsp ) ansi energy efficiency standardization coordination collaborative ( eescc ) nuclear energy standards coordination collaborative ( nescc ) electric vehicles standards panel ( evsp ) ansi - nam network on chemical regulation ansi biofuels standards coordination panel healthcare information technology standards panel ( hitsp ) each of the panels works to identify, coordinate, and harmonize voluntary standards relevant to these areas. in 2009, ansi and the national institute of standards and technology ( nist ) formed the nuclear energy standards coordination collaborative ( nescc ). nescc is a joint initiative to identify and respond to the current need for standards in the nuclear industry. american national standards the asa ( as for american standards association ) photographic exposure system, originally defined in asa z38. 2. 1 ( since 1943 ) and asa ph2. 5 ( since 1954 ), together with the din system ( din 4512 since 1934 ), became the basis for the iso system ( since 1974 ), currently used worldwide ( iso 6, iso 2240, iso 5800, iso 12232 ). a standard for the set of values used to represent characters in digital computers. the ansi code standard extended the previously created ascii seven bit code standard ( asa x3. 4 - 1963 ), with additional codes for european alphabets ( see also extended