of independence allowed a greek state on the coast of the aegean from 1829 onwards. the ottoman empire held a presence over the sea for over 500 years, until it was replaced by modern turkey. the rocks making up the floor of the aegean are mainly limestone, though often greatly altered by volcanic activity that has convulsed the region in relatively recent geologic times. of particular interest are the richly coloured sediments in the region of the islands of santorini and milos, in the south aegean. notable cities on the aegean coastline include athens, thessaloniki, volos, kavala and heraklion in greece, and izmir and bodrum in turkey. a number of issues concerning sovereignty within the aegean sea are disputed between greece and turkey. the aegean dispute has had a large effect on greek - turkish relations since the 1970s. issues include the delimitation of territorial waters, national airspace, exclusive economic zones and flight information regions. name and etymology the name aegaeus, used by late latin authors, referred to aegeus, who was said to have jumped into that sea to drown himself ( rather than throw himself from the athenian acropolis, as told by some greek authors ). he was the father of theseus, the mythical king and founder - hero of athens. aegeus had told theseus to put up white sails when returning if he was successful in killing the minotaur. when theseus returned, he forgot these instructions, and aegeus thought his son had died, so he drowned himself in the sea. the sea was known in latin as mare aegaeum while under the control of the roman empire. the venetians, who ruled many greek islands in the high and late middle ages, popularized the name archipelago (, meaning " main sea " or " chief sea " ), a name that held on in many european countries until the early modern period. in south slavic languages, the aegean is called white sea ( ; ; ). the turkish name for the sea is ege denizi, which is derived from the greek name. geography the aegean sea is an elongated embayment of the mediterranean sea and covers about in area, measuring about longitudinally and latitudinal. the sea ' s maximum depth is, located at a point west of karpathos. the aegean islands are found within its waters, with the following islands delimiting the sea on the south, generally from west to east : kythera, antikythera, crete, kasos, karpathos