from clay, earth or blood by means of a divine creation act ". other potential germanic analogues two wooden figures — the braak bog figures — of " more than human height " were unearthed from a peat bog at braak in schleswig, germany. the figures depict a nude male and a nude female. hilda ellis davidson comments that these figures may represent a " lord and lady " of the vanir, a group of norse gods, and that " another memory of [ these wooden deities ] may survive in the tradition of the creation of ask and embla, the man and woman who founded the human race, created by the gods from trees on the seashore ". a figure named æsc ( old english " ash tree " ) appears as the son of hengest in the anglo - saxon genealogy for the kings of kent. this has resulted in a number of theories that the figures may have had an earlier basis in pre - norse germanic mythology. connections have been proposed between ask and embla and the vandal kings assi and ambri, attested in paul the deacon ' s 7th century ad work origo gentis langobardorum. there, the two ask the god godan ( odin ) for victory. the name ambri, like embla, likely derives from * ambilo. catalog of dwarfs a stanza preceding the account of the creation of ask and embla in voluspa provides a catalog of dwarfs, and stanza 10 has been considered as describing the creation of human forms from the earth. this may potentially mean that dwarfs formed humans, and that the three gods gave them life. carolyne larrington theorizes that humans are metaphorically designated as trees in old norse works ( examples include " trees of jewellery " for women and " trees of battle " for men ) due to the origin of humankind stemming from trees ; ask and embla. modern depictions ask and embla have been the subject of a number of references and artistic depictions. a sculpture depicting the two, created by stig blomberg in 1948, stands in solvesborg in southern sweden. ask and embla are depicted on two of the sixteen wooden panels by dagfin werenskiold on oslo city hall. ask to embla is the title of a poem, parts of which are quoted, by r. h. ash, one of the protagonists in a. s. byatt ' s novel possession : a romance, which won the booker prize in 1990. in the video game fire emblem heroes, the two main warring