while at american universities in early 1933, he undertook his third two - month visiting professorship at the california institute of technology in pasadena. in february and march 1933, the gestapo repeatedly raided his family ' s apartment in berlin. he and his wife elsa returned to europe in march, and during the trip, they learned that the german reichstag had passed the enabling act on 23 march, transforming hitler ' s government into a de facto legal dictatorship, and that they would not be able to proceed to berlin. later on, they heard that their cottage had been raided by the nazis and einstein ' s personal sailboat confiscated. upon landing in antwerp, belgium on 28 march, einstein immediately went to the german consulate and surrendered his passport, formally renouncing his german citizenship. the nazis later sold his boat and converted his cottage into a hitler youth camp. refugee status in april 1933, einstein discovered that the new german government had passed laws barring jews from holding any official positions, including teaching at universities. historian gerald holton describes how, with " virtually no audible protest being raised by their colleagues ", thousands of jewish scientists were suddenly forced to give up their university positions and their names were removed from the rolls of institutions where they were employed. a month later, einstein ' s works were among those targeted by the german student union in the nazi book burnings, with nazi propaganda minister joseph goebbels proclaiming, " jewish intellectualism is dead. " one german magazine included him in a list of enemies of the german regime with the phrase, " not yet hanged ", offering a $ 5, 000 bounty on his head. in a subsequent letter to physicist and friend max born, who had already emigrated from germany to england, einstein wrote, "... i must confess that the degree of their brutality and cowardice came as something of a surprise. " after moving to the us, he described the book burnings as a " spontaneous emotional outburst " by those who " shun popular enlightenment ", and " more than anything else in the world, fear the influence of men of intellectual independence ". einstein was now without a permanent home, unsure where he would live and work, and equally worried about the fate of countless other scientists still in germany. aided by the academic assistance council, founded in april 1933 by british liberal politician william beveridge to help academics escape nazi persecution, einstein was able to leave germany. he rented a house in de haan, belgium, where he lived for a few months. in late july 1933, he visited