alexander i ( medieval gaelic : alaxandair mac mail coluim ; modern gaelic : alasdair mac mhaol chaluim ; c. 1078 – 23 april 1124 ), posthumously nicknamed the fierce, was the king of scotland from 1107 to his death. he succeeded his brother, king edgar, and his successor was his brother david. he was married to sybilla of normandy, an illegitimate daughter of henry i of england. life alexander was the fifth ( some sources say fourth ) son of malcolm iii and his wife margaret of wessex, grandniece of edward the confessor. alexander was named after pope alexander ii. he was the younger brother of king edgar, who was unmarried, and his brother ' s heir presumptive by 1104 ( and perhaps earlier ). in that year, he was the senior layman present at the examination of the remains of saint cuthbert at durham prior to their re - interment. he held lands in scotland north of the forth and in lothian. on the death of edgar in 1107, alexander succeeded to the scottish crown but, in accordance with edgar ' s instructions, their brother david was granted an appanage in southern scotland. edgar ' s will granted david the lands of the former kingdom of strathclyde or cumbria, and this was apparently agreed in advance by edgar, alexander, david and their brother - in - law henry i of england. in 1113, perhaps at henry ' s instigation, and with the support of his anglo - norman allies, david demanded and received, additional lands in lothian along the upper tweed and teviot. david did not receive the title of king, but of " prince of the cumbrians ", and his lands remained under alexander ' s final authority. the dispute over tweeddale and teviotdale does not appear to have damaged relations between alexander and david, although it was unpopular in some quarters. a gaelic poem laments : it ' s bad what malcolm ' s son has done, dividing us from alexander ; he causes, like each king ' s son before, the plunder of stable alba. the dispute over the eastern marches does not appear to have caused lasting trouble between alexander and henry of england. in 1114, he joined henry on campaign in wales against gruffudd ap cynan of gwynedd. alexander ' s marriage with henry ' s illegitimate daughter sybilla of normandy may have occurred as early as 1107, or as late as 1114. william of mal