their lives. if the burn had not lasted exactly the correct amount of time, the spacecraft could have ended up in a highly elliptical lunar orbit or even been flung off into space. if it had lasted too long, they could have struck the moon. after making sure the spacecraft was working, they finally had a chance to look at the moon, which they would orbit for the next 20 hours. on earth, mission control continued to wait. if the crew had not burned the engine, or the burn had not lasted the planned length of time, the crew would have appeared early from behind the moon. exactly at the calculated moment the signal was received from the spacecraft, indicating it was in a orbit around the moon. after reporting on the status of the spacecraft, lovell gave the first description of what the lunar surface looked like : lovell continued to describe the terrain they were passing over. one of the crew ' s major tasks was reconnaissance of planned future landing sites on the moon, especially one in mare tranquillitatis that was planned as the apollo11 landing site. the launch time of apollo8 had been chosen to give the best lighting conditions for examining the site. a film camera had been set up in one of the spacecraft windows to record one frame per second of the moon below. bill anders spent much of the next 20 hours taking as many photographs as possible of targets of interest. by the end of the mission, the crew had taken over eight hundred 70 mm still photographs and of 16 mm movie film. throughout the hour that the spacecraft was in contact with earth, borman kept asking how the data for the sps looked. he wanted to make sure that the engine was working and could be used to return early to the earth if necessary. he also asked that they receive a " go / no go " decision before they passed behind the moon on each orbit. as they reappeared for their second pass in front of the moon, the crew set up equipment to broadcast a view of the lunar surface. anders described the craters that they were passing over. at the end of this second orbit, they performed an 11 - second loi - 2 burn of the sps to circularize the orbit to. throughout the next two orbits, the crew continued to check the spacecraft and to observe and photograph the moon. during the third pass, borman read a small prayer for his church. he had been scheduled to participate in a service at st. christopher ' s episcopal church near seabrook, texas, but due to the apollo8 flight, he was