anglo - saxon law. alfred devoted considerable attention and thought to judicial matters. asser underscores his concern for judicial fairness. alfred, according to asser, insisted upon reviewing contested judgments made by his ealdormen and reeves and " would carefully look into nearly all the judgements which were passed [ issued ] in his absence anywhere in the realm to see whether they were just or unjust ". a charter from the reign of his son edward the elder depicts alfred as hearing one such appeal in his chamber while washing his hands. asser represents alfred as a solomonic judge, painstaking in his own judicial investigations and critical of royal officials who rendered unjust or unwise judgments. although asser never mentions alfred ' s law code he does say that alfred insisted that his judges be literate so that they could apply themselves " to the pursuit of wisdom ". the failure to comply with this royal order was to be punished by loss of office. the anglo - saxon chronicle, commissioned at the time of alfred, was probably written to promote unification of england, whereas asser ' s the life of king alfred promoted alfred ' s achievements and personal qualities. it was possible that the document was designed this way so that it could be disseminated in wales because alfred had acquired overlordship of that country. foreign relations asser speaks grandiosely of alfred ' s relations with foreign powers but little definite information is available. his interest in foreign countries is shown by the insertions which he made in his translation of orosius. he corresponded with elias iii, the patriarch of jerusalem, and embassies to rome conveying the english alms to the pope were fairly frequent. around 890, wulfstan of hedeby undertook a journey from hedeby on jutland along the baltic sea to the prussian trading town of truso. alfred personally collected details of this trip. alfred ' s relations with the celtic princes in the western half of great britain are clearer. comparatively early in his reign, according to asser, the southern welsh princes, owing to the pressure on them from north wales and mercia, commended themselves to alfred. later in his reign, the north welsh followed their example and the latter cooperated with the english in the campaign of 893 ( or 894 ). that alfred sent alms to irish and continental monasteries may be taken on asser ' s authority. the visit of three pilgrim " scots " ( i. e., irish ) to alfred in 891 is undoubtedly authentic. the story that,