not need any water for breeding in the wild. they reproduce via direct development, an ecological and evolutionary adaptation that has allowed them to be completely independent from free - standing water. almost all of these frogs live in wet tropical rainforests and their eggs hatch directly into miniature versions of the adult, passing through the tadpole stage within the egg. reproductive success of many amphibians is dependent not only on the quantity of rainfall, but the seasonal timing. in the tropics, many amphibians breed continuously or at any time of year. in temperate regions, breeding is mostly seasonal, usually in the spring, and is triggered by increasing day length, rising temperatures or rainfall. experiments have shown the importance of temperature, but the trigger event, especially in arid regions, is often a storm. in anurans, males usually arrive at the breeding sites before females and the vocal chorus they produce may stimulate ovulation in females and the endocrine activity of males that are not yet reproductively active. in caecilians, fertilisation is internal, the male extruding an intromittent organ, the, and inserting it into the female cloaca. the paired mullerian glands inside the male cloaca secrete a fluid which resembles that produced by mammalian prostate glands and which may transport and nourish the sperm. fertilisation probably takes place in the oviduct. the majority of salamanders also engage in internal fertilisation. in most of these, the male deposits a spermatophore, a small packet of sperm on top of a gelatinous cone, on the substrate either on land or in the water. the female takes up the sperm packet by grasping it with the lips of the cloaca and pushing it into the vent. the spermatozoa move to the spermatheca in the roof of the cloaca where they remain until ovulation which may be many months later. courtship rituals and methods of transfer of the spermatophore vary between species. in some, the spermatophore may be placed directly into the female cloaca while in others, the female may be guided to the spermatophore or restrained with an embrace called amplexus. certain primitive salamanders in the families sirenidae, hynobiidae and cryptobranchidae practice external fertilisation in a similar manner to frogs, with the female laying the eggs in water and the male releasing sperm onto the egg mass. with