to side with the united states after the occupation of columbus by polk. by september 18, johnston had brig. gen. simon bolivar buckner with another 4, 000 men blocking the railroad route to tennessee at bowling green, kentucky. johnston had fewer than 40, 000 men spread throughout kentucky, tennessee, arkansas, and missouri. of these, 10, 000 were in missouri under missouri state guard maj. gen. sterling price. johnston did not quickly gain many recruits when he first requested them from the governors, but his more serious problem was lacking sufficient arms and ammunition for the troops he already had. as the confederate government concentrated efforts on the units in the east, they gave johnston small numbers of reinforcements and minimal amounts of arms and material. johnston maintained his defense by conducting raids and other measures to make it appear he had larger forces than he did, a strategy that worked for several months. johnston ' s tactics had so annoyed and confused u. s. brig. gen. william tecumseh sherman in kentucky that he became paranoid and mentally unstable. sherman overestimated johnston ' s forces and was relieved by brig. gen. don carlos buell on november 9, 1861. however, in his memoirs, sherman strongly refutes this account. battle of mill springs east tennessee ( a heavily pro - u. s. region of the southern u. s. during the civil war ) was occupied for the confederacy by two unimpressive brigadier generals appointed by jefferson davis : felix zollicoffer, a brave but untrained and inexperienced officer, and soon - to - be maj. gen. george b. crittenden, a former u. s. army officer with apparent alcohol problems. while crittenden was away in richmond, zollicoffer moved his forces to the north bank of the upper cumberland river near mill springs ( now nancy, kentucky ), putting the river to his back and his forces into a trap. zollicoffer decided it was impossible to obey orders to return to the other side of the river because of the scarcity of transport and proximity of u. s. troops. when u. s. brig. gen. george h. thomas moved against the confederates, crittenden decided to attack one of the two parts of thomas ' s command at logan ' s cross roads near mill springs before the u. s. forces could unite. at the battle of mill springs on january 19, 1862, the ill - prepared confederates, after a night march in the rain, attacked the u. s. soldiers with