a consonant letter, while the syllable is still pronounced in the order of a consonant - vowel combination ( cv ). general description the fundamental principles of an abugida apply to words made up of consonant - vowel ( cv ) syllables. the syllables are written as letters in a straight line, where each syllable is either a letter that represents the sound of a consonant and its inherent vowel or a letter modified to indicate the vowel. letters can be modified either by means of diacritics or by changes in the form of the letter itself. if all modifications are by diacritics and all diacritics follow the direction of the writing of the letters, then the abugida is not an alphasyllabary. however, most languages have words that are more complicated than a sequence of cv syllables, even ignoring tone. the first complication is syllables that consist of just a vowel ( v ). for some languages, a zero consonant letter is used as though every syllable began with a consonant. for other languages, each vowel has a separate letter that is used for each syllable consisting of just the vowel. these letters are known as independent vowels, and are found in most indic scripts. these letters may be quite different from the corresponding diacritics, which by contrast are known as dependent vowels. as a result of the spread of writing systems, independent vowels may be used to represent syllables beginning with a glottal stop, even for non - initial syllables. the next two complications are consonant clusters before a vowel ( ccv ) and syllables ending in a consonant ( cvc ). the simplest solution, which is not always available, is to break with the principle of writing words as a sequence of syllables and use a letter representing just a consonant ( c ). this final consonant may be represented with : a modification of the final letter that explicitly indicates the lack of a vowel ( virama ), a lack of vowel marking on the letter ( often with ambiguity between no vowel and a default inherent vowel ), vowel marking on the letter for a short or neutral vowel such as schwa ( with ambiguity between no vowel and that short or neutral vowel ), or a visually unrelated letter. in a true abugida, the lack of distinctive vowel marking of the letter may result from the diachronic loss of the inherent vowel, e. g. by syncope and apocope in hindi. when not separating syllables containing consonant clusters ( ccv ) into c + cv, these syllables are often written by combining the two