1998, aliyev was reelected for a second term. ilham aliyev, heydar aliyev ' s son, became chairman of the new azerbaijan party as well as president of azerbaijan when his father died in 2003. he was reelected to a third term as president in october 2013. in april 2018, president ilham aliyev secured his fourth consecutive term in the election that was boycotted by the main opposition parties as fraudulent. on 27 september 2020, new clashes in the unresolved nagorno - karabakh conflict resumed along the nagorno - karabakh line of contact. both the armed forces of azerbaijan and armenia reported military and civilian casualties. the nagorno - karabakh ceasefire agreement and the end of the six - week war between azerbaijan and armenia was widely celebrated in azerbaijan, as they made significant territorial gains. despite the much improved economy, particularly with the exploitation of the azeri – chirag – guneshli oil field and shah deniz gas field, the aliyev family rule has been criticized due to election fraud, high levels of economic inequality and domestic corruption. geography geographically, azerbaijan is located in the south caucasus region of eurasia, straddling western asia and eastern europe. it lies between latitudes 38° and 42° n, and longitudes 44° and 51° e. the total length of azerbaijan ' s land borders is, of which are with armenia, with iran, 480 kilometers with georgia, with russia and with turkey. the coastline stretches for, and the length of the widest area of the azerbaijani section of the caspian sea is. the country has a landlocked exclave, the nakhchivan autonomous republic. three physical features dominate azerbaijan : the caspian sea, whose shoreline forms a natural boundary to the east ; the greater caucasus mountain range to the north ; and the extensive flatlands at the country ' s center. there are also three mountain ranges, the greater and lesser caucasus, and the talysh mountains, together covering approximately 40 % of the country. the highest peak of azerbaijan is mount bazarduzu, while the lowest point lies in the caspian sea. nearly half of all the mud volcanoes on earth are concentrated in azerbaijan, these volcanoes were also among nominees for the new 7 wonders of nature. the main water sources are surface waters. only 24 of the 8, 350 rivers are greater than in length. all the rivers drain into the caspian sea in the east of the country. the largest lake is sarysu, and the longest river is kur