dignified to them... the utes, pi - utes, bannocks, and other tribes, visited colonel johnston, and all went away expressing themselves pleased, assuring him that so long as he remained they would prove his friends, which the colonel told them would be best for them. thus he effectively destroyed all influence of the mormons over them, and insured friendly treatment to travelers to and from california and oregon. " in august 1859, parts of johnston ' s army of utah were implicated as participants in an alleged massacre at spring valley, a retaliation against an indian massacre of an emigrant train to california. there are conflicting reports of the event and johnston only referenced it in a november 1859 report to scott. he wrote : " i have ascertained that three [ emigrant ] parties were robbed, and ten or twelve of their members, comprising men, women, and children, murdered... the perpetrators of the robbery of the first party were severely chastised by a detachment of dragoons, under the command of lieutenant gay. the troops failed to discover the robbers of the last two parties that were attacked. they are supposed to be vagabonds from the shoshonee ( sic ) or snake and bannack ( sic ) indians, whose chiefs deny any complicity with these predatory bands. there is abundant evidence to prove that these robber bands are accompanied by white men, and probably instigated and led by them. on that account i am inclined to believe the disclaimer of the indians referred to, of having any knowledge of the robberies or any share in the plunder. " the only evidence of the massacre is the account of elijah nicholas wilson ( written in 1910, about 51 years after the incident ) and oral histories. in late february 1860, johnston received orders from the war department recalling him to washington d. c. to prepare for a new assignment. he spent 1860 in kentucky until december 21, when he sailed for california to take command of the department of the pacific. slavery johnston was a slave owner and a strong supporter of slavery. by 1846, he owned four slaves in texas. in 1855, having discovered that a slave was stealing from the army payroll, johnston refused to have him physically punished and instead sold him for $ 1, 000 to recoup the losses. johnston explained that " whipping will not restore what is lost and it will not benefit the [ culprit ], whom a lifetime of kind treatment has failed to make honest. " in 1856, he called