quickly and surreptitiously mobilized the remainder of the family and took refuge in the hagia sophia. from there she negotiated with the emperor for the safety of family members left in the capital, while protesting her sons ' innocence of hostile actions. under the falsehood of making a vesperal visit to worship at the church, she deliberately excluded the grandson of botaneiates and his loyal tutor, met with alexios and isaac, and fled for the forum of constantine. the tutor discovered they were missing and eventually found them on the palace grounds, but anna was able to convince him that they would return to the palace shortly. then to gain entrance to both the outer and inner sanctuary of the church, the women pretended to the gatekeepers that they were pilgrims from cappadocia who had spent all their funds and wanted to worship before starting their return trip. however, before they were to gain entry into the sanctuary, straboromanos and royal guards caught up with them to summon them back to the palace. anna then protested that the family was in fear for their lives, her sons were loyal subjects ( alexios and isaac were discovered absent without leave ), and had learned of a plot by enemies of the komnenoi to have them both blinded and had, therefore, fled the capital so they may continue to be of loyal service to the emperor. she refused to go with them and demanded that they allow her to pray to the mother of god for protection. this request was granted and anna then manifested her true communicative and leadership capabilities : nikephoros iii botaneiates was forced into a public vow that he would grant protection to the family. straboromanos tried to give anna his cross, but for her it was not large enough for all bystanders to witness the oath. she also demanded that the cross be personally sent by botaneiates as a vow of his good faith. he obliged, sending a complete assurance for the family with his own cross. at the emperor ' s further insistence, and for their own protection, they took refuge at the convent of petrion, where they were eventually joined by maria of bulgaria, mother of irene doukaina. botaneiates allowed them to be treated as refugees rather than as guests. they were allowed to have family members bring in their own food and were on good terms with the guards from whom they learned the latest news. anna was highly successful in three important aspects of the revolt : she bought time for her sons to steal