placebo effects ' or work on developing ' meaningful placebos ', they essentially concede it is little more than that. publication bias publication bias is cited as a concern in the reviews of randomized controlled trials of acupuncture. a 1998 review of studies on acupuncture found that trials originating in china, japan, hong kong, and taiwan were uniformly favourable to acupuncture, as were ten out of eleven studies conducted in russia. a 2011 assessment of the quality of randomized controlled trials on traditional chinese medicine, including acupuncture, concluded that the methodological quality of most such trials ( including randomization, experimental control, and blinding ) was generally poor, particularly for trials published in chinese journals ( though the quality of acupuncture trials was better than the trials testing traditional chinese medicine remedies ). the study also found that trials published in non - chinese journals tended to be of higher quality. chinese authors use more chinese studies, which have been demonstrated to be uniformly positive. a 2012 review of 88 systematic reviews of acupuncture published in chinese journals found that less than half of these reviews reported testing for publication bias, and that the majority of these reviews were published in journals with impact factors of zero. a 2015 study comparing pre - registered records of acupuncture trials with their published results found that it was uncommon for such trials to be registered before the trial began. this study also found that selective reporting of results and changing outcome measures to obtain statistically significant results was common in this literature. scientist and journalist steven salzberg identifies acupuncture and chinese medicine generally as a focus for " fake medical journals " such as the journal of acupuncture and meridian studies and acupuncture in medicine. safety adverse events acupuncture is generally safe when administered by an experienced, appropriately trained practitioner using clean - needle technique and sterile single - use needles. when improperly delivered it can cause adverse effects. accidents and infections are associated with infractions of sterile technique or neglect on the part of the practitioner. to reduce the risk of serious adverse events after acupuncture, acupuncturists should be trained sufficiently. a 2009 overview of cochrane reviews found acupuncture is not effective for a wide range of conditions. people with serious spinal disease, such as cancer or infection, are not good candidates for acupuncture. contraindications to acupuncture ( conditions that should not be treated with acupuncture ) include coagulopa