belt asteroids that can, on occasion, be visible to the naked eye. on some rare occasions, a near - earth asteroid may briefly become visible without technical aid ; see 99942 apophis. the mass of all the objects of the asteroid belt, lying between the orbits of mars and jupiter, is estimated to be, ≈ 3. 25 % of the mass of the moon. of this, ceres comprises, about 40 % of the total. adding in the next three most massive objects, vesta ( 11 % ), pallas ( 8. 5 % ), and hygiea ( 3 – 4 % ), brings this figure up to a bit over 60 %, whereas the next seven most - massive asteroids bring the total up to 70 %. the number of asteroids increases rapidly as their individual masses decrease. the number of asteroids decreases markedly with increasing size. although the size distribution generally follows a power law, there are ' bumps ' at about and, where more asteroids than expected from such a curve are found. most asteroids larger than approximately 120 km in diameter are primordial ( surviving from the accretion epoch ), whereas most smaller asteroids are products of fragmentation of primordial asteroids. the primordial population of the main belt was probably 200 times what it is today. largest asteroids three largest objects in the asteroid belt, ceres, vesta, and pallas, are intact protoplanets that share many characteristics common to planets, and are atypical compared to the majority of irregularly shaped asteroids. the fourth - largest asteroid, hygiea, appears nearly spherical although it may have an undifferentiated interior, like the majority of asteroids. the four largest asteroids constitute half the mass of the asteroid belt. ceres is the only asteroid that appears to have a plastic shape under its own gravity and hence the only one that is a dwarf planet. it has a much higher absolute magnitude than the other asteroids, of around 3. 32, and may possess a surface layer of ice. like the planets, ceres is differentiated : it has a crust, a mantle and a core. no meteorites from ceres have been found on earth. vesta, too, has a differentiated interior, though it formed inside the solar system ' s frost line, and so is devoid of water ; its composition is mainly of basaltic rock with minerals such as olivine. aside from the large crater at its southern pole, rheasilvia, vesta also has an ellipsoidal shape