works long hours treating the victims. he injects serum and lances the abscesses, but there is little more that he can do, and his duties weigh heavily upon him. he never gets home until late, and he has to distance himself from the natural pity that he feels for the victims ; otherwise, he would not be able to go on. it is especially hard for him when he visits a victim in the person ' s home because he knows that he must immediately call for an ambulance and have the person removed from the house. often, the relatives plead with him not to do so since they know they may never see the person again. rieux works to combat the plague simply because he is a doctor and his job is to relieve human suffering. he does not do it for any grand, religious purpose, like paneloux ( rieux does not believe in god ), or as part of a high - minded moral code, like tarrou. he is a practical man, doing what needs to be done without any fuss, but he knows that the struggle against death is something that he can never win. jean tarrou : jean tarrou arrived in oran some weeks before the plague broke out for unknown reasons. he is not there on business since he appears to have private means. tarrou is a good - natured man who smiles a lot. before the plague came, he liked to associate with the spanish dancers and musicians in the city. he also keeps a diary, full of his observations of life in oran, which the narrator incorporates into the narrative. it is tarrou who first comes up with the idea of organising teams of volunteers to fight the plague. he wants to do so before the authorities begin to conscript people, and he does not like the official plan to get prisoners to do the work. he takes action, prompted by his own code of morals ; he feels that the plague is everybody ' s responsibility and that everyone should do their duty. what interests him, he tells rieux, is how to become a saint even though he does not believe in god. later in the novel, tarrou tells rieux, with whom he has become friends, the story of his life. his father, although a kind man in private, was also an aggressive prosecuting attorney who tried death penalty cases, arguing strongly for the death penalty to be imposed. as a young boy, tarrou attended one day of a criminal proceeding in which a man was on trial for his life. however, the idea of capital