, india, japan, mauritius, the russian federation, saudi arabia, united arab emirates, us and vietnam. others were in the process of elaborating their own ai strategy, including bangladesh, malaysia and tunisia. the global partnership on artificial intelligence was launched in june 2020, stating a need for ai to be developed in accordance with human rights and democratic values, to ensure public confidence and trust in the technology. henry kissinger, eric schmidt, and daniel huttenlocher published a joint statement in november 2021 calling for a government commission to regulate ai. in 2023, openai leaders published recommendations for the governance of superintelligence, which they believe may happen in less than 10 years. in a 2022 ipsos survey, attitudes towards ai varied greatly by country ; 78 % of chinese citizens, but only 35 % of americans, agreed that " products and services using ai have more benefits than drawbacks ". a 2023 reuters / ipsos poll found that 61 % of americans agree, and 22 % disagree, that ai poses risks to humanity. in a 2023 fox news poll, 35 % of americans thought it " very important ", and an additional 41 % thought it " somewhat important ", for the federal government to regulate ai, versus 13 % responding " not very important " and 8 % responding " not at all important ". history the study of mechanical or " formal " reasoning began with philosophers and mathematicians in antiquity. the study of logic led directly to alan turing ' s theory of computation, which suggested that a machine, by shuffling symbols as simple as " 0 " and " 1 ", could simulate both mathematical deduction and formal reasoning, which is known as the church – turing thesis. this, along with concurrent discoveries in cybernetics and information theory, led researchers to consider the possibility of building an " electronic brain ". the first paper later recognized as " ai " was mccullouch and pitts design for turing - complete " artificial neurons " in 1943. the field of ai research was founded at a workshop at dartmouth college in 1956. the attendees became the leaders of ai research in the 1960s. they and their students produced programs that the press described as " astonishing " : computers were learning checkers strategies, solving word problems in algebra, proving logical theorems and speaking english. by the middle of the 1960s, research in the u. s. was heavily funded by the department of defense and laboratories had been established around the world. herbert simon predicted, " machines will be capable, within twenty years,