in march 1515, afonso met the king and asked the vizier to be present. he then had him immediately stabbed and killed by his entourage, thus " freeing " the terrified king, so the island in the persian gulf yielded to him without resistance and remained a vassal state of the portuguese empire. ormuz itself would not be persian territory for another century, until an english - persian alliance finally expelled the portuguese in 1622. at ormuz, afonso met with miguel ferreira, returning with rich presents and an ambassador, carrying a letter from the persian potentate shah ismael, inviting afonso to become a leading lord in persia. there he remained, engaging in diplomatic efforts, receiving envoys and overseeing the construction of the new fortress, while becoming increasingly ill. his illness was reported as early as september 1515. in november 1515, he embarked on a journey back to goa. death at this time, his political enemies at the portuguese court were planning his downfall. they had lost no opportunity in stirring up the jealousy of king manuel against him, insinuating that afonso intended to usurp power in portuguese india. while on his return voyage from ormuz in the persian gulf, near the harbor of chaul, he received news of a portuguese fleet arriving from europe, bearing dispatches announcing that he was to be replaced by his personal foe, lopo soares de albergaria. realizing the plot that his enemies had moved against him, profoundly disillusioned, he voiced his bitterness : " grave must be my sins before the king, for i am in ill favor with the king for love of the men, and with the men for love of the king. " feeling himself near death, he donned the surcoat of the order of santiago, of which he was a knight, and drew up his will, appointed the captain and senior officials of ormuz, and organized a final council with his captains to decide the main matters affecting the portuguese state of india. he wrote a brief letter to king manuel, asking him to confer onto his natural son " all of the high honors and rewards " that afonso had received, and assuring manuel of his loyalty. on 16 december 1515, afonso de albuquerque died within sight of goa. as his death was known, in the city " great wailing arose ", and many took to the streets to witness his body carried on a chair by his main captains, in a procession lit by torches amidst the