to training musters and exercises in peacetime. reserve obligation lasts up to the age of 50. educational institutions national defense research university vazgen sargsyan military university monte melkonian military academy armenak khanperyants military aviation university yerevan state medical university military faculty foreign institutions for armenian soldiers military academy of modena ecole speciale militaire de saint - cyr hellenic military academy military university of the ministry of defense of the russian federation — college of military finance higher military education is provided by the national defense research university in yerevan. it was established in 2016, on the basis of the institute for national strategic studies. the i have the honour state program is an educational program of the ministry of defence that serves conscripts in the army. participants of the program are given the right to defer conscription in favor of education in post - secondary institutions with full reimbursement of tuition fees, after which the conscript is awarded the rank of lieutenant and is appointed to the service for a period of 2 years and 3 months. contract service a contractual military service is a service last for 3 – 12 months, or for a term of three or five years. males under 36 who have not previously served as contract servicemen and are registered in the reserve, can be enrolled in contractual military service as privates. felons and those not fit for service are ineligible for contract service. since 2008, sergeant training courses for contract servicemen have operated in the armed forces and since 2013, the duration of the courses has three months. the courses are open to reservist privates under the age of 25. conscription military service in armenia is mandatory. citizens aged 27 to 50 are registered in the reserve and may be drafted if a national mobilization was declared. the enlistment process is handled by the military commissariats in january and may. dual citizens are not be exempt from the draft. if one fails to follow through with their obligations, a criminal case is then instituted, which could lead to 3 years in jail. the following military commissariats operate in armenia : yerevan conscription and mobilization service no. 1 territorial subdivision no. 2 territorial subdivision no. 3 territorial subdivision no. 4 territorial subdivision ashtarak aragatsotn regional subdivision artashat ararat regional subdivision armavir armavir regional subdivision martuni gegharkunik regional subdivision abovyan kotayk regional subdivision vanadzor lori regional subdivision gyumri shirak regional subdivision goris syunik regional subdivision ijevan tavush