negative numbers on the familiar celsius or fahrenheit scales are simply colder than the zero points of those scales. certain systems can achieve truly negative temperatures ; that is, their thermodynamic temperature ( expressed in kelvins ) can be of a negative quantity. a system with a truly negative temperature is not colder than absolute zero. rather, a system with a negative temperature is hotter than any system with a positive temperature, in the sense that if a negative - temperature system and a positive - temperature system come in contact, heat flows from the negative to the positive - temperature system. most familiar systems cannot achieve negative temperatures because adding energy always increases their entropy. however, some systems have a maximum amount of energy that they can hold, and as they approach that maximum energy their entropy actually begins to decrease. because temperature is defined by the relationship between energy and entropy, such a system ' s temperature becomes negative, even though energy is being added. as a result, the boltzmann factor for states of systems at negative temperature increases rather than decreases with increasing state energy. therefore, no complete system, i. e. including the electromagnetic modes, can have negative temperatures, since there is no highest energy state, so that the sum of the probabilities of the states would diverge for negative temperatures. however, for quasi - equilibrium systems ( e. g. spins out of equilibrium with the electromagnetic field ) this argument does not apply, and negative effective temperatures are attainable. on 3 january 2013, physicists announced that for the first time they had created a quantum gas made up of potassium atoms with a negative temperature in motional degrees of freedom. history one of the first to discuss the possibility of an absolute minimal temperature was robert boyle. his 1665 new experiments and observations touching cold, articulated the dispute known as the primum frigidum. the concept was well known among naturalists of the time. some contended an absolute minimum temperature occurred within earth ( as one of the four classical elements ), others within water, others air, and some more recently within nitre. but all of them seemed to agree that, " there is some body or other that is of its own nature supremely cold and by participation of which all other bodies obtain that quality. " limit to the " degree of cold " the question whether there is a limit to the degree of coldness possible, and, if so, where the zero must be placed, was first addressed by the french physicist guillaume amontons in 1702, in connection with his