. agassi returned to the tour renamed for the powershares series in 2011 and participated in a total of seven events while winning two. agassi beat courier in the final of the staples champions cup in boston and later defeated sampras at the ctca championships at his hometown las vegas. in 2012, agassi took part in five tournaments, winning three of those. in november, at first he won bilt champions showdown in san jose, beating john mcenroe in the final. the following day, he defended his title of the ctca championships, while defeating courier in the decisive match. in the series season finale, he beat michael chang for the acura champions cup. the series and agassi came back to action in 2014. agassi won both tournaments he participated in. at the camden wealth advisors cup ' s final in houston, agassi beat james blake for a rematch of their 2005 us open quarterfinal. he defeated blake again in portland to win the title of the cancer treatment centers of america championships. in 2015, agassi took part in just one event of the powershares series, losing to mark philippoussis in the final of the champions shootout. the following year he took part in two events, at first losing to blake in chicago, and the next day defeating mardy fish, but losing to roddick in charleston. in 2009, in macau agassi and sampras met for the first time on court since the 2002 us open final. sampras won the exhibition in three sets. the rivalry between the former champions headlined sports media again in march 2010 after the two participated in the " hit for haiti " charity event organized to raise money for the victims of the earthquake. partnered with roger federer and rafael nadal, the old rivals began making jokes at each other ' s expense, which ended up with sampras intentionally striking a serve at agassi ' s body. after the event, agassi admitted that he had crossed the line with his jokes and publicly apologized to sampras. agassi and sampras met again one year later for an exhibition match at madison square garden in new york in front of 19 000 spectators as sampras defeated agassi in two sets. on march 3, 2014, agassi and sampras squared off for an exhibition in london for the annual world tennis day. this time, it was agassi who came out on top in two straight sets. he returned to the tour in may