largely due to his charisma. he applied the term " scarlet woman " to various female lovers whom he believed played an important role in his magical work. during homosexual acts, he usually played ' the passive role ', which booth believed " appealed to his masochistic side ". an underlying theme in many of his writings is that spiritual enlightenment arises through transgressing socio - sexual norms. crowley advocated complete sexual freedom for both men and women. he argued that homosexual and bisexual people should not suppress their sexual orientation, commenting that a person " must not be ashamed or afraid of being homosexual if he happens to be so at heart ; he must not attempt to violate his own true nature because of public opinion, or medieval morality, or religious prejudice which would wish he were otherwise. " on other issues he adopted a more conservative attitude ; he opposed abortion on moral grounds, believing that no woman following her true will would ever desire one. biographer lawrence sutin stated that " blatant bigotry is a persistent minor element in crowley ' s writings ". sutin thought crowley " a spoiled scion of a wealthy victorian family who embodied many of the worst john bull racial and social prejudices of his upper - class contemporaries ", noting that he " embodied the contradiction that writhed within many western intellectuals of the time : deeply held racist viewpoints courtesy of society, coupled with a fascination with people of colour ". crowley is said to have insulted his close jewish friend victor benjamin neuburg, using antisemitic slurs, and he had mixed opinions about jewish people as a group. although he praised their " sublime " poetry and stated that they exhibited " imagination, romance, loyalty, probity and humanity ", he also thought that centuries of persecution had led some jewish people to exhibit " avarice, servility, falseness, cunning and the rest ". he was also known to praise various ethnic and cultural groups, for instance he thought that the chinese people exhibited a " spiritual superiority " to the english, and praised muslims for exhibiting " manliness, straightforwardness, subtlety, and self - respect ". both critics of crowley and adherents of thelema have accused crowley of sexism. booth described crowley as exhibiting a " general misogyny ", something the biographer believed arose from crowley ' s bad relationship with his mother. sutin noted that crowley " largely accepted the notion, implicitly embodied in victorian sexology, of women as secondary social beings in terms of intellect and sensibility ". the scholar of