##nish today valuable bas - reliefs, inscriptions and other architectural fragments. two other galatian tribal centers, tavium near yozgat, and pessinus ( balhisar ) to the west, near sivrihisar, continued to be reasonably important settlements in the roman period, but it was ancyra that grew into a grand metropolis. an estimated 200, 000 people lived in ancyra in good times during the roman empire, a far greater number than was to be the case from after the fall of the roman empire until the early 20th century. the small ankara river ran through the center of the roman town. it has now been covered and diverted, but it formed the northern boundary of the old town during the roman, byzantine and ottoman periods. cankaya, the rim of the majestic hill to the south of the present city center, stood well outside the roman city, but may have been a summer resort. in the 19th century, the remains of at least one roman villa or large house were still standing not far from where the cankaya presidential residence stands today. to the west, the roman city extended until the area of the genclik park and railway station, while on the southern side of the hill, it may have extended downwards as far as the site presently occupied by hacettepe university. it was thus a sizeable city by any standards and much larger than the roman towns of gaul or britannia. ancyra ' s importance rested on the fact that it was the junction point where the roads in northern anatolia running north – south and east – west intersected, giving it major strategic importance for rome ' s eastern frontier. the great imperial road running east passed through ankara and a succession of emperors and their armies came this way. they were not the only ones to use the roman highway network, which was equally convenient for invaders. in the second half of the 3rd century, ancyra was invaded in rapid succession by the goths coming from the west ( who rode far into the heart of cappadocia, taking slaves and pillaging ) and later by the arabs. for about a decade, the town was one of the western outposts of one of palmyrean empress zenobia in the syrian desert, who took advantage of a period of weakness and disorder in the roman empire to set up a short - lived state of her own. the town was reincorporated into the roman empire under emperor aurelian in 272. the tetrarchy, a system of multiple ( up to four