lower - energy states so that, due to the pauli exclusion principle, no other electron could fall into them. sometimes, however, one of these negative - energy particles could be lifted out of this dirac sea to become a positive - energy particle. but, when lifted out, it would leave behind a hole in the sea that would act exactly like a positive - energy electron with a reversed charge. these holes were interpreted as " negative - energy electrons " by paul dirac and mistakenly identified with protons in his 1930 paper a theory of electrons and protons however, these " negative - energy electrons " turned out to be positrons, and not protons. this picture implied an infinite negative charge for the universea problem of which dirac was aware. dirac tried to argue that we would perceive this as the normal state of zero charge. another difficulty was the difference in masses of the electron and the proton. dirac tried to argue that this was due to the electromagnetic interactions with the sea, until hermann weyl proved that hole theory was completely symmetric between negative and positive charges. dirac also predicted a reaction + → +, where an electron and a proton annihilate to give two photons. robert oppenheimer and igor tamm, however, proved that this would cause ordinary matter to disappear too fast. a year later, in 1931, dirac modified his theory and postulated the positron, a new particle of the same mass as the electron. the discovery of this particle the next year removed the last two objections to his theory. within dirac ' s theory, the problem of infinite charge of the universe remains. some bosons also have antiparticles, but since bosons do not obey the pauli exclusion principle ( only fermions do ), hole theory does not work for them. a unified interpretation of antiparticles is now available in quantum field theory, which solves both these problems by describing antimatter as negative energy states of the same underlying matter field, i. e. particles moving backwards in time. particle – antiparticle annihilation if a particle and antiparticle are in the appropriate quantum states, then they can annihilate each other and produce other particles. reactions such as + → ( the two - photon annihilation of an electron - positron pair ) are an example. the single - photon annihilation of an electron - positron pair, + →, cannot occur in free space because it is impossible