. cox - 1 and cox - 2 inhibition at least two different types of cyclooxygenases, cox - 1 and cox - 2, are acted on by aspirin. aspirin irreversibly inhibits cox - 1 and modifies the enzymatic activity of cox - 2. cox - 2 normally produces prostanoids, most of which are proinflammatory. aspirin - modified ptgs2 ( prostaglandin - endoperoxide synthase 2 ) produces lipoxins, most of which are anti - inflammatory. newer nsaid drugs, cox - 2 inhibitors ( coxibs ), have been developed to inhibit only ptgs2, with the intent to reduce the incidence of gastrointestinal side effects. several cox - 2 inhibitors, such as rofecoxib ( vioxx ), have been withdrawn from the market, after evidence emerged that ptgs2 inhibitors increase the risk of heart attack and stroke. endothelial cells lining the microvasculature in the body are proposed to express ptgs2, and, by selectively inhibiting ptgs2, prostaglandin production ( specifically, pgi2 ; prostacyclin ) is downregulated with respect to thromboxane levels, as ptgs1 in platelets is unaffected. thus, the protective anticoagulative effect of pgi2 is removed, increasing the risk of thrombus and associated heart attacks and other circulatory problems. since platelets have no dna, they are unable to synthesize new ptgs once aspirin has irreversibly inhibited the enzyme, an important difference as compared with reversible inhibitors. furthermore, aspirin, while inhibiting the ability of cox - 2 to form pro - inflammatory products such as the prostaglandins, converts this enzyme ' s activity from a prostaglandin - forming cyclooxygenase to a lipoxygenase - like enzyme : aspirin - treated cox - 2 metabolizes a variety of polyunsaturated fatty acids to hydroperoxy products which are then further metabolized to specialized proresolving mediators such as the aspirin - triggered lipoxins, aspirin - triggered resolvins, and aspirin - triggered maresins. these mediators possess potent anti - inflammatory activity. it is proposed that this aspirin - triggered transition of cox -