the territory of ashmore and cartier islands is an uninhabited australian external territory consisting of four low - lying tropical islands in two separate reefs ( ashmore and cartier ), as well as the territorial sea generated by the islands. the territory is located in the indian ocean situated on the edge of the continental shelf, about off the northwest coast of australia and south of the indonesian island of rote. ashmore reef is called pulau pasir by indonesians and nusa solokaek in the rotenese language. both names have the meaning " sand island ". geography the territory comprises ashmore reef, which includes west, middle and east islands, in addition to two lagoons, as well as cartier reef, which includes cartier island. ashmore reef covers approximately and cartier reef, both measurements extending to the limits of the reefs. west, middle and east islands have a combined land area variously reported as, and. cartier island has a reported land area of. history according to australian literature, cartier island was visited by captain nash in 1800, and named after his ship cartier. ashmore island was seen by captain samuel ashmore in 1811 from his ship hibernia and named after him. ashmore island was annexed by the united kingdom in 1878, as was cartier island in 1909. after their annexation, the british government occasionally granted licences on the islands for fishing or guano extraction. in the 1920s, the islands were used as a base for poachers targeting the western australian pearling industry. the lack of effective policing led to australian lobbying for a transfer of control. a british order - in - council dated 23 july 1931 stated that ashmore and cartier islands would be placed under the authority of the commonwealth of australia when australia passed legislation to accept them, and formal administration began two years later. the commonwealth ' s resulting ashmore and cartier islands acceptance act 1933 came into operation on 10 may 1934, when the islands formally became a territory. the act authorised the governor of western australia to make ordinances for the territory. in july 1938 the territory was annexed to the northern territory, then also administered by the commonwealth, whose laws, ordinances and regulations applied to the northern territory. when self - government was granted to the northern territory on 1 july 1978, administration of ashmore and cartier islands was retained by the commonwealth. in 1983, the territory was declared a nature reserve under the national parks and wildlife conservation act 1975, now replaced by the environment protection and biodiversity conservation act 1999. cart