is resolved when vortigern places constans on the throne, and then serves as his chief adviser and power behind the throne. when constans is killed by the picts serving as bodyguards of vortigern, vortigern feigns anguish and has the killers executed. ambrosius is still underage and vortigern rises to the throne. the chronology offered by geoffrey for the early life of ambrosius contradicts gildas and nennius, and is also internally inconsistent. the groans of the britons involves an appeal by the britons to roman consul " agitius ". this person has been identified with flavius aetius ( d. 454 ), magister militum ( " master of soldiers " ) of the western roman empire and consul of the year 446. the groans are generally dated to the 440s and 450s, preceding the death of aetius. if geoffrey ' s constantine rose to the throne immediately following the groans, this would place his reign in this period. geoffrey gives a 10 - year reign for constantine and his marriage lasts just as long. however the eldest son constans is clearly older than 10 years by the time his father dies. he is already an adult candidate of the throne and has had time to follow a monastic career. even assuming there is a time gap between the death of constantine and the adulthood of constans, his younger brothers have not aged at all in the narrative. geoffrey ' s narrative has an underage ambrosius, if not a literal infant, in the 460s. accounts deriving from gildas and nennius place ambrosius in the prime of his life in the same decade. most telling is that geoffrey has vortigern rising to the throne in the 460s. nennius places the rise of vortigern in the year 425, and vortigern is entirely absent in chronologies of the 460s. suggesting that he was deceased by that time. geoffrey ' s narrative includes as a major character hengist, as leader of the saxons. he is featured as the father of queen rowena and father - in - law of vortigern. other saxon characters in the narrative tend to receive less attention by the writer, but their names tend to correspond to anglo - saxons known from other sources. henginst ' s supposed son octa is apparently octa of kent, a 6th - century ruler variously connected to hengist as a son or