. that alfred sent alms to irish and continental monasteries may be taken on asser ' s authority. the visit of three pilgrim " scots " ( i. e., irish ) to alfred in 891 is undoubtedly authentic. the story that, in his childhood, he was sent to ireland to be healed by saint modwenna may show alfred ' s interest in that island. religion, education and culture in the 880s, at the same time that he was " cajoling and threatening " his nobles to build and man the burhs, alfred, perhaps inspired by the example of charlemagne almost a century before, undertook an equally ambitious effort to revive learning. during this period, the viking raids were often seen as a divine punishment, and alfred may have wished to revive religious awe in order to appease god ' s wrath. this revival entailed the recruitment of clerical scholars from mercia, wales and abroad to enhance the tenor of the court and of the episcopacy ; the establishment of a court school to educate his own children, the sons of his nobles, and intellectually promising boys of lesser birth ; an attempt to require literacy in those who held offices of authority ; a series of translations into the vernacular of latin works the king deemed " most necessary for all men to know " ; the compilation of a chronicle detailing the rise of alfred ' s kingdom and house, with a genealogy that stretched back to adam, thus giving the west saxon kings a biblical ancestry. very little is known of the church under alfred. the danish attacks had been particularly damaging to the monasteries. although alfred founded monasteries at athelney and shaftesbury, these were the first new monastic houses in wessex since the beginning of the eighth century. according to asser, alfred enticed foreign monks to england for his monastery at athelney because there was little interest for the locals to take up the monastic life. alfred undertook no systematic reform of ecclesiastical institutions or religious practices in wessex. for him, the key to the kingdom ' s spiritual revival was to appoint pious, learned, and trustworthy bishops and abbots. as king, he saw himself as responsible for both the temporal and spiritual welfare of his subjects. secular and spiritual authority were not distinct categories for alfred. he was equally comfortable distributing his translation of gregory the great ' s pastoral care to his bishops so that they might better train and supervise priests and using those same bishops as royal officials and judges. nor did his piety prevent him from expropriating strategically sited church lands,