: ada. language constructs ada is an algol - like programming language featuring control structures with reserved words such as if, then, else, while, for, and so on. however, ada also has many data structuring facilities and other abstractions which were not included in the original algol 60, such as type definitions, records, pointers, enumerations. such constructs were in part inherited from or inspired by pascal. " hello, world! " in ada a common example of a language ' s syntax is the hello world program : ( hello. adb ) with ada. text _ io ; procedure hello is begin ada. text _ io. put _ line ( " hello, world! " ) ; end hello ; this program can be compiled by using the freely available open source compiler gnat, by executing gnatmake hello. adb data types ada ' s type system is not based on a set of predefined primitive types but allows users to declare their own types. this declaration in turn is not based on the internal representation of the type but on describing the goal which should be achieved. this allows the compiler to determine a suitable memory size for the type, and to check for violations of the type definition at compile time and run time ( i. e., range violations, buffer overruns, type consistency, etc. ). ada supports numerical types defined by a range, modulo types, aggregate types ( records and arrays ), and enumeration types. access types define a reference to an instance of a specified type ; untyped pointers are not permitted. special types provided by the language are task types and protected types. for example, a date might be represented as : type day _ type is range 1.. 31 ; type month _ type is range 1.. 12 ; type year _ type is range 1800.. 2100 ; type hours is mod 24 ; type weekday is ( monday, tuesday, wednesday, thursday, friday, saturday, sunday ) ; type date is record day : day _ type ; month : month _ type ; year : year _ type ; end record ; important to note : day _ type, month _ type, year _ type, hours are incompatible types, meaning that for instance the following expression is illegal : today : day _ type : = 4 ; current _ month : month _ type : = 10 ;... today + current _ month... - - illegal the predefined plus - operator can only add