##ist writers stated they hoped their work on the postbellum era would advance the cause of civil rights. these authors sympathized with the radical republicans for their desire to help the african american, and saw johnson as callous towards the freedman. in a number of works from 1956 onwards by such historians as fawn brodie, the former president was depicted as a successful saboteur of efforts to better the freedman ' s lot. these volumes included major biographies of stevens and stanton. reconstruction was increasingly seen as a noble effort to integrate the freed slaves into society. in the early 21st century, johnson is among those commonly mentioned as the worst presidents in u. s. history. according to historian glenn w. lafantasie, who believes james buchanan the worst president, " johnson is a particular favorite for the bottom of the pile because of his impeachment... his complete mishandling of reconstruction policy... his bristling personality, and his enormous sense of self - importance. " tolson suggests that " johnson is now scorned for having resisted radical republican policies aimed at securing the rights and well - being of the newly emancipated african - americans. " gordon - reed notes that johnson, along with his contemporaries pierce and buchanan, is generally listed among the five worst presidents, but states " there have never been more difficult times in the life of this nation. the problems these men had to confront were enormous. it would have taken a succession of lincolns to do them justice. " trefousse considers johnson ' s legacy to be " the maintenance of white supremacy. his boost to southern conservatives by undermining reconstruction was his legacy to the nation, one that would trouble the country for generations to come. " gordon - reed states of johnson : see also efforts to impeach andrew johnson lincoln – johnson ledger - removal allegation andrew johnson alcoholism debate amphitheatrum johnsonianum – 1867 illustration tennessee johnson – 1942 film notes references citations works cited vol 5 1864 – 66 online and vol 6 1866 – 72 online swanson, ryan a. " andrew johnson and his governors : an examination of failed reconstruction leadership. " tennessee historical quarterly 71. 1 ( 2012 ) : 16 – 45. online primary sources further reading foner, eric. the dunning school : historians, race, and the meaning of reconstruction ( university press of kentucky, 2013 ). hardison, edwin t. " in the toils of war : andrew johnson and the federal occupation of tennessee, 1862