bombing, and a variety of western - made aircraft such as the c - 212 \ aviocar, sud aviation alouette iii, etc. a small number of faa personnel are stationed in the democratic republic of the congo ( kinshasa ) and 500 more were deployed in march 2023 due to the resurgence of the m23. the faa has also participated in the southern african development community ( sadc ) ' s mission for peace in cabo delgado, mozambique. police the national police departments are public order, criminal investigation, traffic and transport, investigation and inspection of economic activities, taxation and frontier supervision, riot police and the rapid intervention police. the national police are in the process of standing up an air wing, to provide helicopter support for operations. the national police are developing their criminal investigation and forensic capabilities. the force has an estimated 6, 000 patrol officers, 2, 500 taxation and frontier supervision officers, 182 criminal investigators and 100 financial crimes detectives and around 90 economic activity inspectors. the national police have implemented a modernisation and development plan to increase the capabilities and efficiency of the total force. in addition to administrative reorganisation, modernisation projects include procurement of new vehicles, aircraft and equipment, construction of new police stations and forensic laboratories, restructured training programmes and the replacement of akm rifles with 9 mm uzis for officers in urban areas. justice a supreme court serves as a court of appeal. the constitutional court is the supreme body of the constitutional jurisdiction, established with the approval of law no. 2 / 08, of 17 june – organic law of the constitutional court and law n. 3 / 08, of 17 june – organic law of the constitutional process. the legal system is based on portuguese and customary law. there are 12 courts in more than 140 counties in the country. its first task was the validation of the candidacies of the political parties to the legislative elections of 5 september 2008. thus, on 25 june 2008, the constitutional court was institutionalized and its judicial counselors assumed the position before the president of the republic. currently, seven advisory judges are present, four men and three women. in 2014, a new penal code took effect in angola. the classification of money - laundering as a crime is one of the novelties in the new legislation. foreign relations angola is a founding member state of the community of portuguese language countries ( cplp ), also known as the lusophone commonwealth, an international organization and political association of lusophone nations across four continents, where portuguese is an official language. on 16 october