an artist is a person engaged in an activity related to creating art, practicing the arts, or demonstrating an art. the common usage in both everyday speech and academic discourse refers to a practitioner in the visual arts only. however, the term is also often used in the entertainment business, especially in a business context, for musicians and other performers ( although less often for actors ). " artiste " ( french for artist ) is a variant used in english in this context, but this use has become rare. the use of the term " artist " to describe writers is valid, but less common, and mostly restricted to contexts such as critics ' reviews. dictionary definitions the oxford english dictionary defines the older broad meanings of the term " artist " : a learned person or master of arts. one who pursues a practical science, traditionally medicine, astrology, alchemy, chemistry. a follower of a pursuit in which skill comes by study or practice. a follower of a manual art, such as a mechanic. one who makes their craft a fine art. one who cultivates one of the fine arts – traditionally the arts presided over by the muses. history of the term the greek word " ", often translated as " art ", implies mastery of any sort of craft. the adjectival latin form of the word, " ", became the source of the english words technique, technology, and technical. in greek culture, each of the nine muses oversaw a different field of human creation : calliope ( the ' beautiful of speech ' ) : chief of the muses and muse of epic or heroic poetry clio ( the ' glorious one ' ) : muse of history erato ( the ' amorous one ' ) : muse of love or erotic poetry, lyrics, and marriage songs euterpe ( the ' well - pleasing ' ) : muse of music and lyric poetry melpomene ( the ' chanting one ' ) : muse of tragedy polyhymnia or polymnia ( the ' [ singer ] of many hymns ' ) : muse of sacred song, oratory, lyric, singing, and rhetoric terpsichore ( the ' [ one who ] delights in dance ' ) : muse of choral song and dance thalia ( the ' blossoming one ' ) : muse of comedy and bucolic poetry urania ( the ' celestial one ' ) : muse of astronomy no muse was identified with the visual arts of painting and sculpture. in ancient greece sculptors and painters were held in low regard, somewhere