demonstrations and riots, especially in countries such as canada, greece, and mexico. militant black bloc protest groups are known for clashing with the police ; however, anarchists not only clash with state operators, they also engage in the struggle against fascists and racists, taking anti - fascist action and mobilizing to prevent hate rallies from happening. evolutionary anarchists commonly employ direct action. this can take the form of disrupting and protesting against unjust hierarchy, or the form of self - managing their lives through the creation of counter - institutions such as communes and non - hierarchical collectives. decision - making is often handled in an anti - authoritarian way, with everyone having equal say in each decision, an approach known as horizontalism. contemporary - era anarchists have been engaging with various grassroots movements that are more or less based on horizontalism, although not explicitly anarchist, respecting personal autonomy and participating in mass activism such as strikes and demonstrations. in contrast with the big - a anarchism of the classical era, the newly coined term small - a anarchism signals their tendency not to base their thoughts and actions on classical - era anarchism or to refer to classical anarchists such as peter kropotkin and pierre - joseph proudhon to justify their opinions. those anarchists would rather base their thought and praxis on their own experience which they will later theorize. the decision - making process of small anarchist affinity groups plays a significant tactical role. anarchists have employed various methods in order to build a rough consensus among members of their group without the need of a leader or a leading group. one way is for an individual from the group to play the role of facilitator to help achieve a consensus without taking part in the discussion themselves or promoting a specific point. minorities usually accept rough consensus, except when they feel the proposal contradicts anarchist ethics, goals and values. anarchists usually form small groups ( 5 – 20 individuals ) to enhance autonomy and friendships among their members. these kinds of groups more often than not interconnect with each other, forming larger networks. anarchists still support and participate in strikes, especially wildcat strikes as these are leaderless strikes not organised centrally by a syndicate. as in the past, newspapers and journals are used, and anarchists have gone online in the world wide web to spread their message. anarchists have found it easier to create websites because of distributional and other difficulties, hosting electronic libraries and other portals. anarchists were also involved in developing various software that are available