' s business no longer had work available. for a short time wallace was unemployed, then early in 1844 he was engaged by the collegiate school in leicester to teach drawing, mapmaking, and surveying. he had already read george combe ' s the constitution of man, and after spencer hall lectured on mesmerism, wallace as well as some of the older pupils tried it out. wallace spent many hours at the town library in leicester ; he read an essay on the principle of population by thomas robert malthus, alexander von humboldt ' s personal narrative, darwin ' s journal ( the voyage of the beagle ), and charles lyell ' s principles of geology. one evening wallace met the entomologist henry bates, who was 19 years old, and had published an 1843 paper on beetles in the journal zoologist. he befriended wallace and started him collecting insects. when wallace ' s brother william died in march 1845, wallace left his teaching position to assume control of his brother ' s firm in neath, but his brother john and he were unable to make the business work. after a few months, he found work as a civil engineer for a nearby firm that was working on a survey for a proposed railway in the vale of neath. wallace ' s work on the survey was largely outdoors in the countryside, allowing him to indulge his new passion for collecting insects. wallace persuaded his brother john to join him in starting another architecture and civil engineering firm. it carried out projects including the design of a building for the neath mechanics ' institute, founded in 1843. william jevons, the founder of that institute, was impressed by wallace and persuaded him to give lectures there on science and engineering. in the autumn of 1846, john and he purchased a cottage near neath, where they lived with their mother and sister fanny. during this period, he exchanged letters with bates about books. he had re - read darwin ' s journal, and said " as the journal of a scientific traveller, it is second only to humboldt ' s ' personal narrative ' — as a work of general interest, perhaps superior to it. " in 1845, wallace had been convinced by robert chambers ' s anonymously published treatise on progressive development, vestiges of the natural history of creation, and found bates to be more critical. exploration and study of the natural world inspired by the chronicles of earlier and contemporary travelling naturalists, wallace decided to travel abroad. he later wrote that darwin ' s journal and humboldt ' s personal narrative were " the two works