in atomic theory and quantum mechanics, an atomic orbital ( ) is a function describing the location and wave - like behavior of an electron in an atom. this function can be used to calculate the probability of finding any electron of an atom in any specific region around the atom ' s nucleus. the term atomic orbital may also refer to the physical region or space where the electron can be calculated to be present, as predicted by the particular mathematical form of the orbital. each orbital in an atom is characterized by a set of values of the three quantum numbers,, and, which respectively correspond to the electron ' s energy, its angular momentum, and an angular momentum vector component ( magnetic quantum number ). as an alternative to the magnetic quantum number, the orbitals are often labeled by the associated harmonic polynomials ( e. g., xy, ). each such orbital can be occupied by a maximum of two electrons, each with its own projection of spin. the simple names s orbital, p orbital, d orbital, and f orbital refer to orbitals with angular momentum quantum number and respectively. these names, together with the value of, are used to describe the electron configurations of atoms. they are derived from the description by early spectroscopists of certain series of alkali metal spectroscopic lines as sharp, principal, diffuse, and fundamental. orbitals for > 3 continue alphabetically ( g, h, i, k,... ), omitting j because some languages do not distinguish between the letters " i " and " j ". atomic orbitals are the basic building blocks of the atomic orbital model ( or electron cloud or wave mechanics model ), a modern framework for visualizing the submicroscopic behavior of electrons in matter. in this model the electron cloud of an atom may be seen as being built up ( in approximation ) in an electron configuration that is a product of simpler hydrogen - like atomic orbitals. the repeating periodicity of blocks of 2, 6, 10, and 14 elements within sections of the periodic table arises naturally from the total number of electrons that occupy a complete set of s, p, d, and f orbitals, respectively, though for higher values of quantum number, particularly when the atom bears a positive charge, the energies of certain sub - shells become very similar and so the order in which they are said to be populated by electrons ( e. g., cr = [ ar ] 4s13d5 and cr2 + = [ ar ] 3d4 ) can be rationalized only