. after a year in ottawa, he moved back to winnipeg, where he sold newspaper advertising space and continued to write. while continuing to pen melodramatic " true confessions " stories through 1937, he also began writing short radio dramas for local radio station cky, as well as conducting interviews published in trade magazines. he added the middle name " elton " at some point in the mid - 1930s, and at least one confessional story ( 1937 ' s " to be his keeper " ) was sold to the toronto star, who misspelled his name " alfred alton bogt " in the byline. shortly thereafter, he added the " van " to his surname, and from that point forward he used the name " a. e. van vogt " both personally and professionally. career by 1938, van vogt decided to switch to writing science fiction, a genre he enjoyed reading. he was inspired by the august 1938 issue of astounding science fiction, which he picked up at a newsstand. john w. campbell ' s novelette " who goes there? " ( later adapted into the thing from another world and the thing ) inspired van vogt to write " vault of the beast ", which he submitted to that same magazine. campbell, who edited astounding ( and had written the story under a pseudonym ), sent van vogt a rejection letter in which campbell encouraged van vogt to try again. van vogt sent another story, entitled " black destroyer ", which was accepted. it featured a fierce, carnivorous alien stalking the crew of a spaceship, and served as the inspiration for multiple science fiction movies, including alien ( 1979 ). a revised version of " vault of the beast " was published in 1940. while still living in winnipeg, in 1939 van vogt married edna mayne hull, a fellow manitoban. hull, who had previously worked as a private secretary, went on to act as van vogt ' s typist, and was credited with writing several sf stories of her own throughout the early 1940s. the outbreak of world war ii in september 1939 caused a change in van vogt ' s circumstances. ineligible for military service due to his poor eyesight, he accepted a clerking job with the canadian department of national defence. this necessitated a move back to ottawa, where he and his wife stayed for the next year and a half. meanwhile, his writing career continued. " discord in scarlet " was van vogt ' s second story to be published, also appearing as the cover