electrons to emit energy quanta that decayed into both matter and antimatter. positrons were detected at a higher rate and in greater density than ever previously detected in a laboratory. previous experiments made smaller quantities of positrons using lasers and paper - thin targets ; newer simulations showed that short bursts of ultra - intense lasers and millimeter - thick gold are a far more effective source. antiprotons, antineutrons, and antinuclei the existence of the antiproton was experimentally confirmed in 1955 by university of california, berkeley physicists emilio segre and owen chamberlain, for which they were awarded the 1959 nobel prize in physics. an antiproton consists of two up antiquarks and one down antiquark ( ). the properties of the antiproton that have been measured all match the corresponding properties of the proton, with the exception of the antiproton having opposite electric charge and magnetic moment from the proton. shortly afterwards, in 1956, the antineutron was discovered in proton – proton collisions at the bevatron ( lawrence berkeley national laboratory ) by bruce cork and colleagues. in addition to antibaryons, anti - nuclei consisting of multiple bound antiprotons and antineutrons have been created. these are typically produced at energies far too high to form antimatter atoms ( with bound positrons in place of electrons ). in 1965, a group of researchers led by antonino zichichi reported production of nuclei of antideuterium at the proton synchrotron at cern. at roughly the same time, observations of antideuterium nuclei were reported by a group of american physicists at the alternating gradient synchrotron at brookhaven national laboratory. antihydrogen atoms in 1995, cern announced that it had successfully brought into existence nine hot antihydrogen atoms by implementing the slac / fermilab concept during the ps210 experiment. the experiment was performed using the low energy antiproton ring ( lear ), and was led by walter oelert and mario macri. fermilab soon confirmed the cern findings by producing approximately 100 antihydrogen atoms at their facilities. the antihydrogen atoms created during ps210 and subsequent experiments ( at both cern and fermilab ) were extremely energetic and were not well suited to study. to resolve this hurdle, and to gain a better understanding of antihydrogen, two collaborations were formed in the late 1990s, namely, athena and