has the largest territory of ski slopes in the pyrenees ( 3100 hectares and about 350 km of slopes ) and two ski resorts. grandvalira is the largest and most popular resort. other popular sports played in andorra include football, rugby union, basketball, and roller hockey. for roller hockey, andorra usually plays in cerh euro cup and in firs roller hockey world cup. in 2011, andorra was the host country to the 2011 european league final eight. the country is represented in association football by the andorra national football team. the team gained its first competitive win in a european championship qualifier on 11 october 2019, against moldova. football is governed in andorra by the andorran football federation – founded in 1994, it organizes the national competitions of association football ( primera divisio, copa constitucio and supercopa ) and futsal. andorra was admitted to uefa and fifa in the same year, 1996. fc andorra, a club based in andorra la vella founded in 1942, compete in the spanish football league system. rugby is a traditional sport in andorra, mainly influenced by the popularity in southern france. the andorra national rugby union team, nicknamed els isards, plays on the international stage in rugby union and rugby sevens. vpc andorra xv is a rugby team based in andorra la vella, which actually plays in the french championship. basketball popularity has increased in the country since the 1990s, when the andorran team bc andorra played in the top league of spain ( liga acb ). after 18 years the club returned to the top league in 2014. other sports practised in andorra include cycling, volleyball, judo, australian rules football, handball, swimming, gymnastics, tennis, and motorsports. in 2012, andorra raised its first national cricket team and played a home match against the dutch fellowship of fairly odd places cricket club, the first match played in the history of andorra at an altitude of. andorra first participated at the olympic games in 1976. the country has appeared in every winter olympic games since 1976. andorra competes in the games of the small states of europe, being twice the host country, in 1991 and 2005. as one of the catalan countries, andorra is home to a team of castellers, or catalan human tower builders. the, based in the town of santa coloma d ' andorra, are recognized by the, the governing body of castells. see also index of andorra - related articles outline of andorra