, " though not to establish doctrine. among some nonconformists, the term apocryphal began to take on extra or altered connotations : not just of dubious authenticity, but having spurious or false content, protestants, being diverse in theological views, were not unanimous in adopting those meanings. generally, anabaptists and magisterial protestants recognize the fourteen books of the apocrypha as being non - canonical, but useful for reading " for example of life and instruction of manners " : a view that continues today throughout the lutheran church, the worldwide anglican communion, among many other denominations, such as the methodist churches and quaker yearly meetings. liturgically, the catholic, methodist and anglican churches have a scripture reading from the book of tobit in services of holy matrimony. according to the orthodox anglican church : though protestant bibles historically include 80 books, 66 of these form the protestant canon ( such as listed in the westminster confession of 1646 ), which has been well established for centuries, with many today supporting the use of the apocrypha and others contending against the apocrypha using various arguments. metaphorical usage the adjective apocryphal is commonly used in modern english to refer to any text or story considered to be of dubious veracity or authority, although it may contain some moral truth. in this broader metaphorical sense, the word suggests a claim that is in the nature of folklore, factoid or urban legend. buddhism apocryphal jatakas of the pali canon, such as those belonging to the pannasajataka collection, have been adapted to fit local culture in certain southeast asian countries and have been retold with amendments to the plots to better reflect buddhist morals. within the pali tradition, the apocryphal jatakas of later composition ( some dated even to the 19th century ) are treated as a separate category of literature from the " official " jataka stories that have been more - or - less formally canonized from at least the 5th century — as attested to in ample epigraphic and archaeological evidence, such as extant illustrations in bas relief from ancient temple walls. judaism the jewish apocrypha, known in hebrew as הספרים החיצונים ( sefarim hachizonim : " the external books " ), are books written in large part by jews, especially during the second temple period, not accepted as sacred manuscripts when the hebrew bible was canonized. some of these