animals. guidelines have been developed not only to protect persons with disabilities but also to indemnify businesses from damages related to granting access to service animals on their premises. businesses are allowed to ask if the animal is a service animal and ask what tasks it is trained to perform, but they are not allowed to ask the service animal to perform the task nor ask for a special id of the animal. they cannot ask what the person ' s disabilities are. a person with a disability cannot be removed from the premises unless either of two things happen : the animal is out of control and its owner cannot get it under control ( e. g. a dog barking uncontrollably in a restaurant ), or the animal is a direct threat to people ' s health and safety. allergies and fear of animals would not be considered a threat to people ' s health and safety, so it would not be a valid reason to deny access to people with service animals. businesses that prepare or serve food must allow service animals and their owners on the premises even if state or local health laws otherwise prohibit animals on the premises. in this case, businesses that prepare or serve food are not required to provide care or food for service animals, nor do they have to provide a designated area for the service animal to relieve itself. lastly, people that require service dogs cannot be charged an extra fee for their service dog or be treated unfairly, for example, being isolated from people at a restaurant. people with disabilities cannot be treated as " less than " other customers. however, if a business normally charges for damages caused by the person to property, the customer with a disability will be charged for their service animal ' s damages to the property. auxiliary aids the ada provides explicit coverage for auxiliary aids. auxiliary aids and services are items, equipment or services that assist in effective communication between a person who has a hearing, vision or speech disability and a person who does not. ada says that a public accommodation shall take those steps that may be necessary to ensure that no individual with a disability is excluded, denied services, segregated or otherwise treated differently than other individuals because of the absence of auxiliary aids and services, unless the public accommodation can demonstrate that taking those steps would fundamentally alter the nature of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations being offered or would result in an undue burden, i. e., significant difficulty or expense. the term " auxiliary aids and services " includes : qualified interpreters on - site or through video remote interpreting ( vri )