an independent company after google ' s shares ceased at the end of the fiscal year. on november 23, aol unveiled a new brand identity with the wordmark " aol. " superimposed onto canvases created by commissioned artists. the new identity, designed by wolff olins, was integrated with all of aol ' s services on december 10, the date upon which aol traded independently for the first time since the time warner merger on the new york stock exchange under the symbol aol. on april 6, 2010, aol announced plans to shutter or sell bebo. on june 16, the property was sold to criterion capital partners for an undisclosed amount, believed to be approximately $ 10 million. in december, aim eliminated access to aol chat rooms, noting a marked decline in usage in recent months. under armstrong ' s leadership, aol followed a new business direction marked by a series of acquisitions. it announced the acquisition of patch media, a network of community - specific news and information sites focused on towns and communities. on september 28, 2010, at the san francisco techcrunch disrupt conference, aol signed an agreement to acquire techcrunch. on december 12, 2010, aol acquired about. me, a personal profile and identity platform, four days after the platform ' s public launch. on january 31, 2011, aol announced the acquisition of european video distribution network goviral. in march 2011, aol acquired huffpost for $ 315 million. shortly after the acquisition was announced, huffington post co - founder arianna huffington replaced aol content chief david eun, assuming the role of president and editor - in - chief of the aol huffington post media group. on march 10, aol announced that it would cut approximately 900 workers following the huffpost acquisition. on september 14, 2011, aol formed a strategic ad - selling partnership with two of its largest competitors, yahoo and microsoft. the three companies would begin selling inventory on each others ' sites. the strategy was designed to help the companies compete with google and advertising networks. on february 28, 2012, aol partnered with pbs to launch makers, a digital documentary series focusing on high - achieving women in industries perceived as male - dominated such as war, comedy, space, business, hollywood and politics. subjects for makers episodes have included oprah winfrey, hillary clinton, sheryl sandberg, martha stewart, indra nooyi, lena dunham and ellen degeneres. on march 15, 2012, aol announced the