not mention asandhamitta at all, but does mention tissarakkha as tishyarakshita. the divyavadana mentions another queen called padmavati, who was the mother of the crown - prince kunala. as mentioned above, according to the sri lankan tradition, ashoka fell in love with devi ( or vidisha - mahadevi ), as a prince in central india. after ashoka ' s ascension to the throne, devi chose to remain at vidisha than move to the royal capital pataliputra. according to the mahavmsa, ashoka ' s chief queen was asandhamitta, not devi : the text does not talk of any connection between the two women, so it is unlikely that asandhamitta was another name for devi. the sri lankan tradition uses the word samvasa to describe the relationship between ashoka and devi, which modern scholars variously interpret as sexual relations outside marriage, or co - habitation as a married couple. those who argue that ashoka did not marry devi argue that their theory is corroborated by the fact that devi did not become ashoka ' s chief queen in pataliputra after his ascension. the dipavamsa refers to two children of ashoka and devi – mahinda and sanghamitta. sons tivara, the son of ashoka and karuvaki, is the only of ashoka ' s sons to be mentioned by name in the inscriptions. according to north indian tradition, ashoka had a son named kunala. kunala had a son named samprati. the sri lankan tradition mentions a son called mahinda, who was sent to sri lanka as a buddhist missionary ; this son is not mentioned at all in the north indian tradition. the chinese pilgrim xuanzang states that mahinda was ashoka ' s younger brother ( vitashoka or vigatashoka ) rather than his illegitimate son. the divyavadana mentions the crown - prince kunala alias dharmavivardhana, who was a son of queen padmavati. according to faxian, dharmavivardhana was appointed as the governor of gandhara. the rajatarangini mentions jalauka as a son of ashoka. daughters according to sri lankan tradition, ashoka had a daughter named sanghamitta, who became a buddhist nun. a section of historians, such as romila thapar, doubt the historicity of sanghamitta, based on