genus is in subtribe amaryllidinae, in the tribe amaryllideae. the taxonomy of the genus has been controversial. in 1753 carl linnaeus created the name amaryllis belladonna, the type species of the genus amaryllis. at the time both south african and south american plants were placed in the same genus ; subsequently they were separated into two different genera. the key question is whether linnaeus ' s type was a south african plant or a south american plant. if the latter, amaryllis would be the correct name for the genus hippeastrum, and a different name would have to be used for the genus discussed here. alan w. meerow et al. have briefly summarized the debate, which took place from 1938 onwards and involved botanists on both sides of the atlantic. the outcome was a decision by the 14th international botanical congress in 1987 that amaryllis should be a conserved name ( i. e. correct regardless of priority ) and ultimately based on a specimen of the south african amaryllis belladonna from the clifford herbarium at the natural history museum in london. species, amaryllis had only two accepted species, both native to the cape provinces of south africa : amaryllis belladonna – south - west cape provinces ; introduced into many parts of the world, including california, great britain, australia and new zealand amaryllis paradisicola – west cape provinces phylogeny amaryllidinae are placed within amaryllideae as follow : these are phylogenetically related as follows : etymology the name amaryllis is taken from a shepherdess in virgil ' s pastoral eclogues, ( from the greek. although the 1987 decision settled the question of the scientific name of the genus, the common name ' amaryllis ' continues to be used differently. bulbs sold as amaryllis and described as " ready to bloom for the holidays " belong to the allied genus hippeastrum. the common name " naked lady " comes from the plant ' s pattern of flowering when the foliage has died down. this name is also used for other bulbs with a similar growth and flowering pattern ; some of these have their own widely used and accepted common names, such as the resurrection lily ( lycoris squamigera ). habitat in areas of its native habitat with mountainous fynbos flowering tends to be suppressed until after bush fires as dense overhead vegetation prevents growth. in more open sandy areas of the western cape, the plant flowers annually. plants tend to