have originated in a pre - greek religion. it is suggested, though unconfirmed, that he is connected to the mycenaean figure pa - ja - wo - ne ( linear b : ). paean was the personification of holy songs sung by " seer - doctors " ( ), which were supposed to cure disease. homer illustrated paeon the god and the song both of apotropaic thanksgiving or triumph. such songs were originally addressed to apollo and afterwards to other gods : to dionysus, to apollo helios, to apollo ' s son asclepius the healer. about the 4th century bce, the paean became merely a formula of adulation ; its object was either to implore protection against disease and misfortune or to offer thanks after such protection had been rendered. it was in this way that apollo had become recognized as the god of music. apollo ' s role as the slayer of the python led to his association with battle and victory ; hence it became the roman custom for a paean to be sung by an army on the march and before entering into battle, when a fleet left the harbour, and also after a victory had been won. in the iliad, apollo is the healer under the gods, but he is also the bringer of disease and death with his arrows, similar to the function of the vedic god of disease rudra. he sends a plague ( ) to the achaeans. knowing that apollo can prevent a recurrence of the plague he sent, they purify themselves in a ritual and offer him a large sacrifice of cows, called a hecatomb. dorian origin the homeric hymn to apollo depicts apollo as an intruder from the north. the connection with the northern - dwelling dorians and their initiation festival apellai is reinforced by the month apellaios in northwest greek calendars. the family - festival was dedicated to apollo ( doric : ). apellaios is the month of these rites, and apellon is the " megistos kouros " ( the great kouros ). however it can explain only the doric type of the name, which is connected with the ancient macedonian word " pella " ( pella ), stone. stones played an important part in the cult of the god, especially in the oracular shrine of delphi ( omphalos ). minoan origin george huxley regarded the identification of apollo with the minoan deity paiawon, worshipped in crete