at harvard. personality differences led huxley to distance himself from leary, when huxley grew concerned that leary had become too keen on promoting the drugs rather indiscriminately, even playing the rebel with a fondness for publicity. eyesight differing accounts exist about the details of the quality of huxley ' s eyesight at specific points in his life. circa 1939, huxley encountered the bates method, in which he was instructed by margaret darst corbett. in 1940, huxley relocated from hollywood to a ranchito in the high desert hamlet of llano, california, in northern los angeles county. huxley then said that his sight improved dramatically with the bates method and the extreme and pure natural lighting of the southwestern american desert. he reported that, for the first time in more than 25 years, he was able to read without glasses and without strain. he even tried driving a car along the dirt road beside the ranch. he wrote a book about his experiences with the bates method, the art of seeing, which was published in 1942 ( u. s. ), 1943 ( uk ). the book contained some generally disputed theories, and its publication created a growing degree of popular controversy about huxley ' s eyesight. it was, and is, widely believed that huxley was nearly blind since the illness in his teens, despite the partial recovery that had enabled him to study at oxford. for example, some ten years after publication of the art of seeing, in 1952, bennett cerf was present when huxley spoke at a hollywood banquet, wearing no glasses and apparently reading his paper from the lectern without difficulty : brazilian author joao ubaldo ribeiro, who as a young journalist spent several evenings in the huxleys ' company in the late 1950s, wrote that huxley had said to him, with a wry smile : " i can hardly see at all. and i don ' t give a damn, really. " on the other hand, huxley ' s second wife laura later emphasised in her biographical account, this timeless moment : " one of the great achievements of his life : that of having regained his sight. " after revealing a letter she wrote to the los angeles times disclaiming the label of huxley as a " poor fellow who can hardly see " by walter c. alvarez, she tempered her statement : laura huxley proceeded to elaborate a few nuances of inconsistency peculiar to huxley ' s vision. her account, in this respect, agrees with the following sample of huxley