##upuncture in an attempt to reduce wrinkles on the face. bee venom acupuncture is a treatment approach of injecting purified, diluted bee venom into acupoints. veterinary acupuncture is the use of acupuncture on domesticated animals. efficacy many thousands of papers had been published on the efficacy of acupuncture for the treatment of various adult health conditions, but there was no robust evidence it was beneficial for anything, except shoulder pain and fibromyalgia. for science - based medicine, steven novella wrote that the overall pattern of evidence was reminiscent of that for homeopathy, compatible with the hypothesis that most, if not all, benefits were due to the placebo effect, and strongly suggestive that acupuncture had no beneficial therapeutic effects at all. research methodology and challenges sham acupuncture and research it is difficult but not impossible to design rigorous research trials for acupuncture. due to acupuncture ' s invasive nature, one of the major challenges in efficacy research is in the design of an appropriate placebo control group. for efficacy studies to determine whether acupuncture has specific effects, " sham " forms of acupuncture where the patient, practitioner, and analyst are blinded seem the most acceptable approach. sham acupuncture uses non - penetrating needles or needling at non - acupuncture points, e. g. inserting needles on meridians not related to the specific condition being studied, or in places not associated with meridians. the under - performance of acupuncture in such trials may indicate that therapeutic effects are due entirely to non - specific effects, or that the sham treatments are not inert, or that systematic protocols yield less than optimal treatment. a 2014 review in nature reviews cancer found that " contrary to the claimed mechanism of redirecting the flow of qi through meridians, researchers usually find that it generally does not matter where the needles are inserted, how often ( that is, no dose - response effect is observed ), or even if needles are actually inserted. in other words, ' sham ' or ' placebo ' acupuncture generally produces the same effects as ' real ' acupuncture and, in some cases, does better. " a 2013 meta - analysis found little evidence that the effectiveness of acupuncture on pain ( compared to sham ) was modified by the location of the needles, the number of needles used, the experience or technique of the practitioner, or