in the standing high jump. head coach of u. s. track team at 4 successive olympic games, 1924, 1928, 1932, 1936. archibald simpson, architect, one of aberdeen ' s major architects. john smith, architect, aberdeen ' s other major architect and official city architect nicol stephen, former scottish liberal democrats leader, former deputy first minister of scotland john strachan, first anglican bishop of toronto. annie wallace, actress in hollyoaks. ron yeats, former football player, captain of the first great liverpool team of the 1960s, also played for the scotland national team. aberdeen in popular culture stuart macbride ' s crime novels cold granite, dying light, broken skin, flesh house, blind eye and dark blood ( a series with main protagonist, ds logan mcrae ) are all set in aberdeen. a large part of the plot of the world war ii thriller eye of the needle by welsh author, ken follett, takes place in wartime aberdeen, from which a german spy is trying to escape to a submarine waiting offshore. a portion of ian rankin ' s novel black and blue ( 1997 ) is set in aberdeen, where its nickname " furry boots " is noted. songs titled " aberdeen " have been recorded by the music groups danny wilson, royseven, and cage the elephant. the scottish rock band the xcerts released the song " aberdeen 1987 " on their debut album in the cold wind we smile, released on 30 march 2009. the first verse contains the line " 15, sitting in a graveyard talking about their history ". the graveyard referenced in the song is the graveyard of the kirk of st nicholas on union street. see also aberdeen bestiary aberdeen city youth council aberdeen safer community trust aberdeen typhoid outbreak 1964 aberdonia ( disambiguation ) list of places in aberdeen list of places in scotland our lady of aberdeen voluntary service aberdeen freedom of the city of aberdeen notes references further reading shepherd, mike ( 2015 ). oil strike north sea : a first - hand history of north sea oil. luath press. external links aberdeen city council a collection of historic maps of aberdeen from the 1660s onward at national library of scotland a selection of archive films relating to aberdeen at the scottish screen archive engraving of aberdeen in 1693 by john slezer at national library of scotland cities in scotland council areas of scotland fishing communities in scotland lieutenancy areas of scotland port cities and towns in scotland port cities and towns of the north sea royal burghs grampian