s sons " regarding the goths as deserters from their rule, came against them as though they were seeking fugitive slaves ", attacked ostrogothic co - ruler valamir ( who also fought alongside ardaric and attila at the catalaunian plains ), but were repelled, and some group of huns moved to scythia ( probably those of ernak ). his brother dengizich attempted a renewed invasion across the danube in 468 ad, but was defeated at the battle of bassianae by the ostrogoths. dengizich was killed by roman - gothic general anagast the following year, after which the hunnic dominion ended. attila ' s many children and relatives are known by name and some even by deeds, but soon valid genealogical sources all but dried up, and there seems to be no verifiable way to trace attila ' s descendants. this has not stopped many genealogists from attempting to reconstruct a valid line of descent for various medieval rulers. one of the most credible claims has been that of the nominalia of the bulgarian khans for mythological avitohol and irnik from the dulo clan of the bulgars. the hungarian arpad dynasty also claimed to be a direct descendant of attila. medieval hungarian chronicles from the hungarian royal court like gesta hungarorum, gesta hunnorum et hungarorum, chronicon pictum, buda chronicle, chronica hungarorum claimed that the arpad dynasty and the aba clan are the descendants of attila. appearance and character there is no surviving first - hand account of attila ' s appearance, but there is a possible second - hand source provided by jordanes, who cites a description given by priscus. some scholars have suggested that these features are typically east asian, because in combination they fit the physical type of people from eastern asia, so attila ' s ancestors may have come from there. other historians have suggested that the same features may have been typical of some scythian people. later folklore and iconography the name has many variants in several languages : atli and atle in old norse ; etzel in middle high german ( nibelungenlied ) ; ætla in old english ; attila, atilla, and etele in hungarian ( attila is the most popular ) ; attila, atilla, atilay, or atila in turkish ; and adil and edil in kazakh or adi