of the isla do gigante southwest of the isla do brasil suggest that it refers to bonaire and curacao since aruba is located more to the northwest. in 1493, the year in which the west indian islands became known in europe, the division between the secular ( civil ) and religious authorities in the new world had to be arranged. the newly appointed spanish pope, alexander vi, issued the inter caetera bull, granting the spanish crown sovereignty over the newly discovered territories and the responsibility of the holy task : to send good, god - fearing men, who are earned and capable, to those islands and continents to teach the natives living there about the catholic faith and instill in them good habits. in exchange for the papal approval of the treaty, spain promised to vigorously carry out missionary work in the discovered territories. this gave spain the right to evangelize the americas and appoint and dismiss priests, blurring the separation between church and state in the region. in other words, the spanish crown was granted significant religious authority in the americas, which was not strictly separate from the state and weakened the distinction between the religious and secular spheres — a key aspect of separation between church and state. the conquistador humanity experienced a devastating genocide as the conquistadors were fascinated by legends of inexhaustible gold reserves of el dorado and violently imposed the authority, culture, and values of the old world ( europeans ) over the new world ( indigenous societies ). the conquest was characterized by bloodshed, destruction, and forced assimilation of the native peoples into european society, such as the initiation of indian slavery by columbus in 1492. europeans had an advantage because they had superior weapons, such as firearms, steel swords, armor, ships, horses, and targeted military strategies. while expedition leaders mostly came from the higher echelons of late medieval society, their foot soldiers were usually from the lower middle class of southern europe. these soldiers formed the basis of the future group of encomenderos. the encomienda system granted spanish colonizers right by the spanish crown to extract tribute and labor from indigenous peoples. for example, indigenous communities had to give up a portion of the yields from their agricultural or farm land, known as conucos in taino, as a form of taxation and to provide for the food supply of the colonists. the defeated were often kidnapped and forced to participate in expeditions elsewhere in the new world as slave laborers. the caquetio population of the leeward antilles was incorporated into the spanish colonial empire