reed pipes, and with the classical alsace silbermann organ resources and baroque flue pipes, all in registers regulated ( by stops ) to access distinct voices in fugue or counterpoint capable of combination without loss of distinctness : different voices singing the same music together. schweitzer also studied piano under isidor philipp, head of the piano department at the paris conservatory. in 1905, widor and schweitzer were among the six musicians who founded the paris bach society, a choir dedicated to performing j. s. bach ' s music, for whose concerts schweitzer took the organ part regularly until 1913. he was also appointed organist for the bach concerts of the orfeo catala at barcelona, spain, and often travelled there for that purpose. he and widor collaborated on a new edition of bach ' s organ works, with detailed analysis of each work in three languages ( english, french, german ). schweitzer, who insisted that the score should show bach ' s notation with no additional markings, wrote the commentaries for the preludes and fugues, and widor those for the sonatas and concertos : six volumes were published in 1912 – 14. three more, to contain the chorale preludes with schweitzer ' s analyses, were to be worked on in africa, but these were never completed, perhaps because for him they were inseparable from his evolving theological thought. on departure for lambarene in 1913, he was presented with a pedal piano, a piano with pedal attachments to operate like an organ pedal - keyboard. built especially for the tropics, it was delivered by river in a huge dug - out canoe to lambarene, packed in a zinc - lined case. at first, he regarded his new life as a renunciation of his art, and fell out of practice, but after some time he resolved to study and learn by heart the works of bach, mendelssohn, widor, cesar franck, and max reger systematically. it became his custom to play during the lunch hour and on sunday afternoons. schweitzer ' s pedal piano was still in use at lambarene in 1946. according to a visitor, dr. gaine cannon, of balsam grove, n. c., the old, dilapidated piano - organ was still being played by dr. schweitzer in 1962, and stories told that " his fingers were still lively " on the old instrument at 88 years of age. sir donald