smaller squeezeboxes, and are equipped with two shoulder straps to make it easier to balance the weight and increase bellows control while sitting, and avoid dropping the instrument while standing. other accordions, such as the diatonic button accordion, have only a single shoulder strap and a right hand thumb strap. all accordions have a ( mostly adjustable ) leather strap on the left - hand side to keep the player ' s hand in position while drawing the bellows. there are also straps above and below the bellows to keep it securely closed when the instrument is not being played. electronic and digital in the 2010s, a range of electronic and digital accordions were introduced. they have an electronic sound module which creates the accordion sound, and most use midi systems to encode the keypresses and transmit them to the sound module. a digital accordion can have hundreds of sounds, which can include different types of accordions and even non - accordion sounds, such as pipe organ, piano, or guitar. sensors are used on the buttons and keys, such as magnetic reed switches. sensors are also used on the bellows to transmit the pushing and pulling of the bellows to the sound module. digital accordions may have features not found in acoustic instruments, such as a piano - style sustain pedal, a modulation control for changing keys, and a portamento effect. as an electronic instrument, these types of accordions are plugged into a pa system or keyboard amplifier to produce sound. some digital accordions have a small internal speaker and amplifier, so they can be used without a pa system or keyboard amplifier, at least for practicing and small venues like coffeehouses. one benefit of electronic accordions is that they can be practiced with headphones, making them inaudible to other people nearby. on a digital accordion, the volume of the right - hand keyboard and the left - hand buttons can be independently adjusted. acoustic - digital hybrid accordions also exist. they are acoustic accordions ( with reeds, bellows, and so on ), but they also contain sensors, electronics, and midi connections, which provides a wider range of sound options. an acoustic - digital hybrid may be manufactured in this form, or it may be an acoustic accordion which has had aftermarket electronics sensors and connections added. several companies sell aftermarket electronics kits, but they are typically installed by professional accordion technicians, because of the complex and delicate nature of the internal parts of an accordion. unusual accordions various hybrid accordions have been created between instruments of different buttonboards and actions