##uendo, sneers, and denunciation. he wrote a hatchet job on hank rearden called the octopus. he is also vocal in support of the equalization of opportunity bill. scudder claims that the most important thing in life is " brother love " but seems to have nothing but hatred for those around him. he loses his job after dagny taggart reveals her affair with hank rearden over air on his radio show. claude slagenhop is president of political organization friends of global progress and one of lillian rearden ' s friends. he believes that ideas are just air, that this is no time for talk, but for action. global progress is a sponsor of the equalization of opportunity bill. gerald and ivy starnes are the two surviving children of jed starnes, the founder of the twentieth century motor company. together with their since - deceased brother eric, they instituted a communistic payment - and - benefits program that drove the company into bankruptcy. gerald, a dying alcoholic, and ivy, a pseudo - buddhist ascetic, continue to insist that the plan was perfect and that the failure of their father ' s company was entirely due to the workers. eric was a weak, attention - seeking man with a pathological desire to be loved. he committed suicide after the woman he loved married another man. gerald claims that he always acted for the good of the employees, but he was vain and incompetent and often threw lavish parties using company funds. ivy, on the other hand, is described as a sadist who relishes seeing others in poverty, but who has no desire for wealth of her own. andrew stockton runs the stockton foundry in stockton, colorado. when he joins the strike, he opens a foundry in galt ' s gulch. mr. thompson is the " head of the state " for the united states. he is not particularly intelligent and has a very undistinguished look. he knows politics, however, and is a master of public relations and back - room deals. rand ' s notes indicate that she modeled him on president harry s. truman, and that she deliberately decided not to call him " president of the united states " as this title has " honorable connotations " which the character does not deserve. lester tuck is the campaign manager for kip chalmers and one of his guests on the train trip to california. he dies in the taggart tunnel disaster. clem weatherby is a government representative on the board of directors of taggart transcon