agencies — the local animals, plants, and landforms ( mountains, rivers, forests, winds, and weather patterns, all of which are felt to have their own specific sentience ). hence, the shaman ' s ability to heal individual instances of dis - ease ( or imbalance ) within the human community is a byproduct of their more continual practice of balancing the reciprocity between the human community and the wider collective of animate beings in which that community is embedded. animist life non - human animals animism entails the belief that " all living things have a soul ", and thus, a central concern of animist thought surrounds how animals can be eaten, or otherwise used for humans ' subsistence needs. the actions of non - human animals are viewed as " intentional, planned and purposive ", and they are understood to be persons, as they are both alive, and communicate with others. in animist worldviews, non - human animals are understood to participate in kinship systems and ceremonies with humans, as well as having their own kinship systems and ceremonies. harvey cited an example of an animist understanding of animal behavior that occurred at a powwow held by the conne river mi ' kmaq in 1996 ; an eagle flew over the proceedings, circling over the central drum group. the assembled participants called out ( ' eagle ' ), conveying welcome to the bird and expressing pleasure at its beauty, and they later articulated the view that the eagle ' s actions reflected its approval of the event, and the mi ' kmaq ' s return to traditional spiritual practices. in animism, rituals are performed to maintain relationships between humans and spirits. indigenous peoples often perform these rituals to appease the spirits and request their assistance during activities such as hunting and healing. in the arctic region, certain rituals are common before the hunt as a means to show respect for the spirits of animals. flora some animists also view plant and fungi life as persons and interact with them accordingly. the most common encounter between humans and these plant and fungi persons is with the former ' s collection of the latter for food, and for animists, this interaction typically has to be carried out respectfully. harvey cited the example of maori communities in new zealand, who often offer karakia invocations to sweet potatoes as they dig up the latter. while doing so, there is an awareness of a kinship relationship between the maori and the sweet potatoes, with both understood as having arrived in aotea