as legumes of all types. with a coastline along the adriatic and ionian in the mediterranean sea, fish, crustaceans, and seafood are a popular and an integral part of the albanian diet. otherwise, lamb is the traditional meat for different holidays and religious festivals for both christians and muslims, although poultry, beef, and pork are also in plentiful supply. tave kosi ( " soured milk casserole " ) is the national dish of albania, consisting of lamb and rice baked under a thick, tart veil of yoghurt. fergese is another national dish, made up of peppers, tomatoes, and cottage cheese. pite is also popular, a baked pastry with a filling of a mixture of spinach and gjize ( curd ) or mish ( ground meat ). petulla, a traditional fried dough, is also a popular speciality, and is served with powdered sugar or feta cheese and different sorts of fruit jams. flia consists of multiple crepe - like layers brushed with cream and served with sour cream. krofne, similar to berliner doughnuts, are filled with jam, or chocolate and often eaten during winter. coffee is an integral part of the albanian lifestyle. the country has more coffee houses per capita than any other country in the world. tea is also enjoyed both at home or outside at cafes, bars, or restaurants. caj mali ( sideritis tea ) is enormously beloved, and a part of the daily routine for most albanians. it is cultivated across southern albania and noted for its medicinal properties. black tea is also popular. albanian wine is also common throughout the country, and has been cultivated for thousands of years. albania has a long and ancient history of wine production, and belongs to the old world of wine producing countries. music albanian folk music is a prominent part of the national identity, and continues to play a major part in overall albanian music. folk music can be divided into two stylistic groups, mainly the northern gheg varieties, and southern lab and tosk varieties. northern and southern traditions are contrasted by a rugged tone from the north, and the more relaxed southern form of music. many songs concern events from albanian history and culture, including traditional themes of honour, hospitality, treachery, and revenge. the first compilation of albanian folk music was made by two himariot musicians, neco muka and koco cakali, in paris, during their work with albanian soprano tefta