during 1988, he also set the open - era record for most consecutive victories by a male teenager ( a record that stood for 17 years until rafael nadal broke it in 2005 ). his year - end ranking was no. 3, behind second - ranked ivan lendl and top - ranked mats wilander. both the association of tennis professionals and tennis magazine named agassi the most improved player of the year for 1988. in addition to not playing the australian open ( which later became his best grand slam event ) for the first eight years of his career, agassi chose not to play at wimbledon from 1988 through 1990 ( although he first played there in 1987, only to lose in the first round to henri leconte ) and publicly stated that he did not wish to play there because of the event ' s traditionalism, particularly its " predominantly white " dress code to which players at the event are required to conform. strong performances on the tour meant that agassi was quickly tipped as a future grand slam champion. while still a teenager, he reached the semi - finals of both the french open and the us open in 1988 and made the us open semi - finals in 1989. he began the 1990s with a series of near - misses. he reached his first grand slam final in 1990 at the french open, where he was favored before losing in four sets to andres gomez, which he later attributed in his book to worrying about his wig falling off during the match. he reached his second grand slam final of the year at the us open, defeating defending champion boris becker in the semi - finals. his opponent in the final was pete sampras ; a year earlier, agassi had crushed sampras, after which time he told his coach that he felt bad for sampras because he was never going to make it as a pro. agassi lost the us open final to sampras in three sets. the agassi - sampras rivalry became the biggest one in tennis over the rest of the decade. agassi ended 1990 on a high note as he helped the united states win its first davis cup in 8 years on home soil against australia ( 3 - 2 ) and won his only tennis masters cup, beating reigning wimbledon champion stefan edberg in the final. in 1991, agassi reached his second consecutive french open final, where he faced fellow bollettieri academy alumnus jim courier. courier emerged the victor in a five - set final. the las vegan was a set and 3 - 1