aromatic compounds, also known as " mono - and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons ", are organic compounds containing one or more aromatic rings. the word " aromatic " originates from the past grouping of molecules based on odor, before their general chemical properties were understood. the current definition of aromatic compounds does not have any relation with their odor. heteroarenes are closely related, since at least one carbon atom of ch group is replaced by one of the heteroatoms oxygen, nitrogen, or sulfur. examples of non - benzene compounds with aromatic properties are furan, a heterocyclic compound with a five - membered ring that includes a single oxygen atom, and pyridine, a heterocyclic compound with a six - membered ring containing one nitrogen atom. hydrocarbons without an aromatic ring are called aliphatic. approximately half of compounds known in the year 2000 are described as aromatic to some extent. aromatic compounds play key roles in the biochemistry of all living things. the four aromatic amino acids histidine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, and tyrosine each serve as one of the 20 basic building - blocks of proteins. further, all 5 nucleotides ( adenine, thymine, cytosine, guanine, and uracil ) that make up the sequence of the genetic code in dna and rna are aromatic purines or pyrimidines. the molecule heme contains an aromatic system with 22 π - electrons. chlorophyll also has a similar aromatic system. aromatic compounds are important in industry. key aromatic hydrocarbons of commercial interest are benzene, toluene, ortho - xylene and para - xylene. about 35 million tonnes are produced worldwide every year. they are extracted from complex mixtures obtained by the refining of oil or by distillation of coal tar, and are used to produce a range of important chemicals and polymers, including styrene, phenol, aniline, polyester and nylon. benzene ring model benzene, c6h6, is the least complex aromatic hydrocarbon, and it was the first one named as such. the nature of its bonding was first recognized by august kekule in the 19th century. each carbon atom in the hexagonal cycle has four electrons to share. one goes to the hydrogen atom, and one to each of the two neighboring carbons. this leaves one electron to share with one