and mediterranean overflow water. the nadw is fed by a flow of warm shallow water into the northern north atlantic which is responsible for the anomalous warm climate in europe. changes in the formation of nadw have been linked to global climate changes in the past. since human - made substances were introduced into the environment, the path of the nadw can be traced throughout its course by measuring tritium and radiocarbon from nuclear weapon tests in the 1960s and cfcs. gyres the clockwise warm - water north atlantic gyre occupies the northern atlantic, and the counter - clockwise warm - water south atlantic gyre appears in the southern atlantic. in the north atlantic, surface circulation is dominated by three inter - connected currents : the gulf stream which flows north - east from the north american coast at cape hatteras ; the north atlantic current, a branch of the gulf stream which flows northward from the grand banks ; and the subpolar front, an extension of the north atlantic current, a wide, vaguely defined region separating the subtropical gyre from the subpolar gyre. this system of currents transport warm water into the north atlantic, without which temperatures in the north atlantic and europe would plunge dramatically. north of the north atlantic gyre, the cyclonic north atlantic subpolar gyre plays a key role in climate variability. it is governed by ocean currents from marginal seas and regional topography, rather than being steered by wind, both in the deep ocean and at sea level. the subpolar gyre forms an important part of the global thermohaline circulation. its eastern portion includes eddying branches of the north atlantic current which transport warm, saline waters from the subtropics to the north - eastern atlantic. there this water is cooled during winter and forms return currents that merge along the eastern continental slope of greenland where they form an intense ( 40 – 50 sv ) current which flows around the continental margins of the labrador sea. a third of this water becomes part of the deep portion of the north atlantic deep water ( nadw ). the nadw, in its turn, feeds the meridional overturning circulation ( moc ), the northward heat transport of which is threatened by anthropogenic climate change. large variations in the subpolar gyre on a decade - century scale, associated with the north atlantic oscillation, are especially pronounced in labrador sea water, the upper layers of the moc. the south atlantic is dominated by the anti - cyclonic southern subtropical gyre.