the iowa general assembly enacted legislation to establish the state agricultural college and model farm. story county was chosen as the location on june 21, 1859, from proposals by johnson, kossuth, marshall, polk, and story counties. when iowa accepted the provisions of the morrill act of 1862, iowa state became the first institution in nation designated as a land - grant college. the institution was coeducational from the first preparatory class admitted in 1868. the formal admitting of students began the following year, and the first graduating class of 1872 consisted of 24 men and 2 women. the first building on the iowa state campus was farm house. built in the 1860s, it currently serves as a museum and national historic landmark. today, iowa state has over 60 notable buildings, including beardshear hall, morrill hall, memorial union, catt hall, curtiss hall, carver hall, parks library, the campanile, hilton coliseum, c. y. stephens auditorium, fisher theater, jack trice stadium, lied recreation center, numerous residence halls, and many buildings specific to isu ' s many different majors and colleges. the official mascot for isu is cy the cardinal. the official school colors are cardinal and gold. the iowa state cyclones play in the ncaa ' s division i - a as a member of the big 12 conference. media online and newsprint ames tribune, tuesday - sunday paper produced in ames. iowa state daily, independent student newspaper produced at iowa state university. the des moines register also provides extensive coverage of iowa news and sports to ames. story county sun, weekly newspaper that covers the entire county published in ames. radio stations licensed to ames kure, student radio operated at iowa state university. woi - fm, iowa public radio ' s flagship " studio one " station, broadcasting an npr news format during the day and a music format in the evening, owned and operated at iowa state university. woi ( am ), iowa public radio ' s flagship station delivering a 24 - hour news format consisting mainly of npr programming, owned and operated at iowa state university. koez, adult contemporary station licensed to ames, but operated in des moines. kcyz, hot adult contemporary station owned and operated by clear channel in ames. kasi, news / talk station owned and operated by clear channel in ames. knwm - fm, contemporary christian madrid / ames station owned and operated by the university of northwestern – st. paul - simulcast with knwi - fm osceola / des moines khoi, community radio