##12, the world ' s first production car to have led drls, and have since spread throughout the entire model range. the leds are present on some audi billboards. since 2010, audi has also offered the led technology in low - and high - beam headlights. multi media interface starting with the 2003 audi a8, audi has used a centralised control interface for its on - board infotainment systems, called multi media interface ( mmi ). it is essentially a rotating control knob and ' segment ' buttons – designed to control all in - car entertainment devices ( radio, cd changer, ipod, tv tuner ), satellite navigation, heating and ventilation, and other car controls with a screen. the availability of mmi has gradually filtered down the audi lineup, and following its introduction on the third generation a3 in 2011, mmi is now available across the entire range. it has been generally well received, as it requires less menu - surfing with its segment buttons around a central knob, along with ' main function ' direct access buttons – with shortcuts to the radio or phone functions. the colour screen is mounted on the upright dashboard, and on the a4 ( new ), a5, a6, a8, and q7, the controls are mounted horizontally. synthetic fuels audi has assisted with technology to produce synthetic diesel from water and carbon dioxide. audi calls the synthetic diesel e - diesel. it is also working on synthetic gasoline ( which it calls e - gasoline ). logistics audi uses scanning gloves for parts registration during assembly, and automatic robots to transfer cars from factory to rail cars. models current model range the following tables list audi production vehicles that are sold as of 2018 : s and rs models electric vehicles audi is planning an alliance with the japanese electronics giant sanyo to develop a pilot hybrid electric project for the volkswagen group. the alliance could result in sanyo batteries and other electronic components being used in future models of the volkswagen group. concept electric vehicles unveiled to date include the audi a1 sportback concept, audi a4 tdi concept e, and the fully electric audi e - tron concept supercar. self - driving cars in december 2018, audi announced to invest 14 billion euro ( $ 15. 9 billion ) in e - mobility, self - driving cars. production figures data from 1998 to 2010. figures for different body types / versions of models have been merged to create overall figures for each model. motorsport audi has competed in various forms of motorsports. audi ' s tradition in motorsport began with their former