the ray was ordinary, or the perpendicular plane ( containing the ray ) if the ray was extraordinary. in fresnel ' s model, the direction of vibration was normal to the plane of polarization. hence, for the sphere ( the ordinary wave ), the vibration was along the lines of latitude ( continuing the geographic analogy ) ; and for the spheroid ( the extraordinary wave ), the vibration was along the lines of longitude. on 29 march 1819, biot presented a memoir in which he proposed simple generalizations of malus ' s rules for a crystal with two axes, and reported that both generalizations seemed to be confirmed by experiment. for the velocity law, the squared sine was replaced by the product of the sines of the angles from the ray to the two axes ( biot ' s sine law ). and for the polarization of the ordinary ray, the plane of the ray and the axis was replaced by the plane bisecting the dihedral angle between the two planes each of which contained the ray and one axis ( biot ' s dihedral law ). biot ' s laws meant that a biaxial crystal with axes at a small angle, cleaved in the plane of those axes, behaved nearly like a uniaxial crystal at near - normal incidence ; this was fortunate because gypsum, which had been used in chromatic - polarization experiments, is biaxial. first memoir and supplements ( 1821 – 22 ) until fresnel turned his attention to biaxial birefringence, it was assumed that one of the two refractions was ordinary, even in biaxial crystals. but, in a memoir submitted on 19 november 1821, fresnel reported two experiments on topaz showing that neither refraction was ordinary in the sense of satisfying snell ' s law ; that is, neither ray was the product of spherical secondary waves. the same memoir contained fresnel ' s first attempt at the biaxial velocity law. for calcite, if we interchange the equatorial and polar radii of huygens ' s oblate spheroid while preserving the polar direction, we obtain a prolate spheroid touching the sphere at the equator. a plane through the center / origin cuts this prolate spheroid in an ellipse whose major and minor semi - axes give the magnitudes of the extraordinary and ordinary ray velocities in the direction normal to the plane, and ( said fresnel ) the directions of