##stotelian on the universe. on providence survives in two arabic versions. in this treatise, alexander opposes the stoic view that divine providence extends to all aspects of the world ; he regards this idea as unworthy of the gods. instead, providence is a power that emanates from the heavens to the sublunar region, and is responsible for the generation and destruction of earthly things, without any direct involvement in the lives of individuals. influence by the 6th century alexander ' s commentaries on aristotle were considered so useful that he was referred to as " the commentator " ( ). his commentaries were greatly esteemed among the arabs, who translated many of them, and he is heavily quoted by maimonides. in 1210, the church council of paris issued a condemnation, which probably targeted the writings of alexander among others. in the early renaissance his doctrine of the soul ' s mortality was adopted by pietro pomponazzi ( against the thomists and the averroists ), and by his successor cesare cremonini. this school is known as alexandrists. alexander ' s band, an optical phenomenon, is named after him. modern editions several of alexander ' s works were published in the aldine edition of aristotle, venice, 1495 – 1498 ; his de fato and de anima were printed along with the works of themistius at venice ( 1534 ) ; the former work, which has been translated into latin by grotius and also by schulthess, was edited by j. c. orelli, zurich, 1824 ; and his commentaries on the metaphysica by h. bonitz, berlin, 1847. in 1989 the first part of his on aristotle ' s metaphysics was published in english translation as part of the ancient commentators project. since then, other works of his have been translated into english. see also alexander ' s band - an optical phenomenon associated with rainbows free will in antiquity notes bibliography translations m. bergeron, dufour ( trans., comm. ), 2009. de l ’ ame. textes & commentaires.. paris : librairie philosophique j. vrin, 2008. 416 p. r. w. sharples, 1990, alexander of aphrodisias : ethical problems. duckworth. w. e. dooley, 1989, alexander of aphrodisias : on aristotle metaphysics 1. duckworth. w. e. dooley, a. madigan,