and japanese scholars generally ignored the school. the americans developed their own form of " new social history " from entirely different roots. both the american and the annales historians picked up important family reconstitution techniques from french demographer louis henry. the wageningen school centered on bernard slicher van bath was viewed internationally as a dutch counterpart of the annales school, although slicher van bath himself vehemently rejected the idea of a quantitative " school " of historiography. has been cited as a key influence in the development of world systems theory by sociologist immanuel wallerstein. current the current leader is roger chartier, who is directeur d ' etudes at the ecole des hautes etudes en sciences sociales in paris, professeur in the college de france, and annenberg visiting professor of history at the university of pennsylvania. he frequently lectures and teaches in the united states, spain, mexico, brazil and argentina. his work in early modern european history focuses on the history of education, the history of the book and the history of reading. recently, he has been concerned with the relationship between written culture as a whole and literature ( particularly theatrical plays ) for france, england and spain. his work in this specific field ( based on the criss - crossing between literary criticism, bibliography, and sociocultural history ) is connected to broader historiographical and methodological interests which deal with the relation between history and other disciplines : philosophy, sociology, anthropology. chartier ' s typical undergraduate course focuses upon the making, remaking, dissemination, and reading of texts in early modern europe and america. under the heading of " practices, " his class considers how readers read and marked up their books, forms of note - taking, and the interrelation between reading and writing from copying and translating to composing new texts. under the heading of " materials, " his class examines the relations between different kinds of writing surfaces ( including stone, wax, parchment, paper, walls, textiles, the body, and the heart ), writing implements ( including styluses, pens, pencils, needles, and brushes ), and material forms ( including scrolls, erasable tables, codices, broadsides and printed forms and books ). under the heading of " places, " his class explores where texts were made, read, and listened to, including monasteries, schools and universities, offices of the state, the shops of merchants and booksellers, printing houses, theaters, libraries, studies, and closets.