also located in the hague. symbols the coat of arms of amsterdam is composed of several historical elements. first and centre are three st andrew ' s crosses, aligned in a vertical band on the city ' s shield ( although amsterdam ' s patron saint was saint nicholas ). these st andrew ' s crosses can also be found on the city shields of neighbours amstelveen and ouder - amstel. this part of the coat of arms is the basis of the flag of amsterdam, flown by the city government, but also as civil ensign for ships registered in amsterdam. second is the imperial crown of austria. in 1489, out of gratitude for services and loans, maximilian i awarded amsterdam the right to adorn its coat of arms with the king ' s crown. then, in 1508, this was replaced with maximilian ' s imperial crown when he was crowned holy roman emperor. in the early years of the 17th century, maximilian ' s crown in amsterdam ' s coat of arms was again replaced, this time with the crown of emperor rudolph ii, a crown that became the imperial crown of austria. the lions date from the late 16th century, when city and province became part of the republic of the seven united netherlands. last came the city ' s official motto : heldhaftig, vastberaden, barmhartig ( " heroic, determined, merciful " ), bestowed on the city in 1947 by queen wilhelmina, in recognition of the city ' s bravery during the second world war. transport metro, tram and bus currently, there are sixteen tram routes and five metro routes. all are operated by municipal public transport operator gemeentelijk vervoerbedrijf ( gvb ), which also runs the city bus network. four fare - free gvb ferries carry pedestrians and cyclists across the ij lake to the borough of amsterdam - noord, and two fare - charging ferries run east and west along the harbour. there are also privately operated water taxis, a water bus, a boat sharing operation, electric rental boats and canal cruises, that transport people along amsterdam ' s waterways. regional buses, and some suburban buses, are operated by connexxion and ebs. international coach services are provided by eurolines from amsterdam amstel railway station, idbus from amsterdam sloterdijk railway station, and megabus from the zuiderzeeweg in the east of the city. in order to facilitate easier transport to the centre of amsterdam, the city has various p + r