isaac as had been prophesied in mamre the previous year, sarah became pregnant and bore a son to abraham, on the first anniversary of the covenant of circumcision. abraham was " an hundred years old ", when his son whom he named isaac was born ; and he circumcised him when he was eight days old. for sarah, the thought of giving birth and nursing a child, at such an old age, also brought her much laughter, as she declared, " god hath made me to laugh, so that all who hear will laugh with me. " isaac continued to grow and on the day he was weaned, abraham held a great feast to honor the occasion. during the celebration, however, sarah found ishmael mocking ; an observation that would begin to clarify the birthright of isaac. ishmael ishmael was fourteen years old when abraham ' s son isaac was born to sarah. when she found ishmael teasing isaac, sarah told abraham to send both ishmael and hagar away. she declared that ishmael would not share in isaac ' s inheritance. abraham was greatly distressed by his wife ' s words and sought the advice of his god. god told abraham not to be distressed but to do as his wife commanded. god reassured abraham that " in isaac shall seed be called to thee. " he also said that ishmael would make a nation, " because he is thy seed ". early the next morning, abraham brought hagar and ishmael out together. he gave her bread and water and sent them away. the two wandered in the wilderness of beersheba until her bottle of water was completely consumed. in a moment of despair, she burst into tears. after god heard the boy ' s voice, an angel of the lord confirmed to hagar that he would become a great nation, and will be " living on his sword ". a well of water then appeared so that it saved their lives. as the boy grew, he became a skilled archer living in the wilderness of paran. eventually his mother found a wife for ishmael from her home country, the land of egypt. binding of isaac at some point in isaac ' s youth, abraham was commanded by god to offer his son up as a sacrifice in the land of moriah. the patriarch traveled three days until he came to the mount that god told him of. he then commanded the servants to remain while he and isaac proceeded alone into the mount. isaac carried the wood