in nordic mythology, asgard ( old norse : asgarðr ; " enclosure of the æsir " ) is a location associated with the gods. it appears in a multitude of old norse sagas and mythological texts. it is described as the fortified home of the æsir gods, often associated with gold imagery. many of the best - known nordic gods are æsir or live in asgard such as odin, thor, loki, and baldr. etymology the word asgarðr is a compound formed from ( " god " ) and ( " enclosure " ). possible anglicisations include : asgarthr, asgard, asegard, asgardr, asgardr, asgarth, asgarth, esageard, and asgardhr. attestations the poetic edda asgard is named twice in eddic poetry. the first case is in hymiskviða, when thor and tyr journey from asgard to hymir ' s hall to obtain a cauldron large enough to brew beer for a feast for ægir and the gods. the second instance is in þrymskviða when loki is attempting to convince thor to dress up as freyja in order to get back mjolnir by claiming that without his hammer to protect them, jotnar would soon be living in asgard. grimnismal contains among its cosmological descriptions, a number of abodes of the gods, such as alfheim, noatun and valhall, which some scholars have identified as being in asgard. it is to be noted, however, that asgard is not mentioned at any point in the poem. furthermore, voluspa references iðavollr, one of the most common meeting places of æsir gods, which in gylfaginning, snorri locates in the centre of asgard. the prose edda prologue the prose edda ' s euhemeristic prologue portrays the æsir gods as people that travelled from the east to northern territories. according to snorri, asgard represented the town of troy before greek warriors overtook it. after the defeat, trojans moved to northern europe, where they became a dominant group due to their " advanced technologies and culture ". eventually, other tribes began to perceive the trojans and their leader tror ( thor in old norse ) as gods. gylfaginning in gylfaginning, snorri sturluson describes how during