preparing the cabin for armstrong and aldrin to return. just before he reached the dark side on the third orbit, mission control informed collins there was a problem with the temperature of the coolant. if it became too cold, parts of columbia might freeze. mission control advised him to assume manual control and implement environmental control system malfunction procedure 17. instead, collins flicked the switch on the system from automatic to manual and back to automatic again, and carried on with normal housekeeping chores, while keeping an eye on the temperature. when columbia came back around to the near side of the moon again, he was able to report that the problem had been resolved. for the next couple of orbits, he described his time on the back side of the moon as " relaxing ". after aldrin and armstrong completed their eva, collins slept so he could be rested for the rendezvous. while the flight plan called for eagle to meet up with columbia, collins was prepared for a contingency in which he would fly columbia down to meet eagle. return eagle rendezvoused with columbia at 21 : 24 utc on july 21, and the two docked at 21 : 35. eagles ascent stage was jettisoned into lunar orbit at 23 : 41. just before the apollo 12 flight, it was noted that eagle was still likely to be orbiting the moon. later nasa reports mentioned that eagle orbit had decayed, resulting in it impacting in an " uncertain location " on the lunar surface. in 2021, however, some calculations show that the lander may still be in orbit. on july 23, the last night before splashdown, the three astronauts made a television broadcast in which collins commented : aldrin added : armstrong concluded : on the return to earth, a bearing at the guam tracking station failed, potentially preventing communication on the last segment of the earth return. a regular repair was not possible in the available time but the station director, charles force, had his ten - year - old son greg use his small hands to reach into the housing and pack it with grease. greg was later thanked by armstrong. splashdown and quarantine the aircraft carrier, under the command of captain carl j. seiberlich, was selected as the primary recovery ship ( prs ) for apollo 11 on june 5, replacing its sister ship, the lph, which had recovered apollo 10 on may 26. hornet was then at her home port of long beach, california. on reaching pearl harbor on july 5, hornet embarked the sikorsky sh - 3 sea king