and upstream of its tributary amstel. the prehistoric ij was a shallow and quiet stream in peatland behind beach ridges. this secluded area was able to grow into an important local settlement centre, especially in the late bronze age, the iron age and the roman age. neolithic and roman artefacts have also been found in the prehistoric amstel bedding under amsterdam ' s damrak and rokin, such as shards of bell beaker culture pottery ( 2200 - 2000 bc ) and a granite grinding stone ( 2700 - 2750 bc ), but the location of these artefacts around the river banks of the amstel probably point to a presence of a modest semi - permanent or seasonal settlement. until water issues were controlled, a permanent settlement would not have been possible, since the river mouth and the banks of the amstel in this period in time were too wet for permanent habitation. founding the origins of amsterdam are linked to the development of a dam on the amstel river called amestelle, meaning ' watery area ', from aa ( m ) ' river ' + stelle ' site at a shoreline ', ' river bank '. in this area, land reclamation started as early as the late 10th century. amestelle was located along a side arm of the ij. this side arm took the name from the eponymous land : amstel. amestelle was inhabited by farmers, who lived more inland and more upstream, where the land was not as wet as at the banks of the downstream river mouth. these farmers were starting the reclamation around upstream ouderkerk aan de amstel, and later at the other side of the river at amstelveen. the van amstel family, known in documents by this name since 1019, held the stewardship in this northwestern nook of the ecclesiastical district of the bishop of utrecht. the family later served also under the count of holland. a major turning point in the development of the amstel river mouth was the all saint ' s flood of 1170. in an extremely short period of time, the shallow river ij turned into a wide estuary, which from then on offered the amstel an open connection to the zuiderzee, ijssel and waterways further afield. this made the water flow of the amstel more active, so excess water could be drained better. with drier banks, the downstream amstel mouth became attractive for permanent habitation. moreover, the river had grown from an insignificant