##l ( aq ) + naoh ( aq ) → h2o ( l ) + nacl ( aq ) neutralization is the basis of titration, where a ph indicator shows equivalence point when the equivalent number of moles of a base have been added to an acid. it is often wrongly assumed that neutralization should result in a solution with ph 7. 0, which is only the case with similar acid and base strengths during a reaction. neutralization with a base weaker than the acid results in a weakly acidic salt. an example is the weakly acidic ammonium chloride, which is produced from the strong acid hydrogen chloride and the weak base ammonia. conversely, neutralizing a weak acid with a strong base gives a weakly basic salt ( e. g., sodium fluoride from hydrogen fluoride and sodium hydroxide ). weak acid – weak base equilibrium in order for a protonated acid to lose a proton, the ph of the system must rise above the pka of the acid. the decreased concentration of h + in that basic solution shifts the equilibrium towards the conjugate base form ( the deprotonated form of the acid ). in lower - ph ( more acidic ) solutions, there is a high enough h + concentration in the solution to cause the acid to remain in its protonated form. solutions of weak acids and salts of their conjugate bases form buffer solutions. titration to determine the concentration of an acid in an aqueous solution, an acid – base titration is commonly performed. a strong base solution with a known concentration, usually naoh or koh, is added to neutralize the acid solution according to the color change of the indicator with the amount of base added. the titration curve of an acid titrated by a base has two axes, with the base volume on the x - axis and the solution ' s ph value on the y - axis. the ph of the solution always goes up as the base is added to the solution. example : diprotic acid for each diprotic acid titration curve, from left to right, there are two midpoints, two equivalence points, and two buffer regions. equivalence points due to the successive dissociation processes, there are two equivalence points in the titration curve of a diprotic acid. the first equivalence point occurs when all first hydrogen ions from the first ionization are titrated. in other words, the amount of oh− added equals the original amount of h