suspected eruptions, have been the most active. buckle island in the balleny islands ( 66°50 ' s., 163°12 ' e. ), penguin island ( 62°06 ' s., 57°54 ' w. ), paulet island ( 63°35 ' s., 55°47 ' w. ), and lindenberg island ( 64°55 ' s., 59°40 ' w. ) are also considered to be active. in 2017, the researchers of edinburgh university discovered 91 underwater volcanoes under west antarctica. glaciovolcanism the definition of glaciovolcanism is “ the interactions of magma with ice in all its forms, including snow, firn and any meltwater. ” it defines a special field of volcanic that is specifically centered around ice and ice melt. this field of science is less than 100 years old, and thus continuously makes new discoveries. glaciovolcanism is characterized by three kinds of eruptions : sub - glacial eruptions, supraglacial volcanism, and ice - marginal volcanism. the study of glaciovolcanism is vital to the understanding of ice sheet formation. it is also a valuable tool to predict volcanic hazards, such as the ash hazard following the eyjafjallajokull eruption in iceland. marie byrd land the marie byrd land is an incredibly large portion of west antarctica, consisting of the area below the antarctic peninsula. the marie byrd land is a large formation of volcanic rock, characterized by 18 exposed and subglacial volcanoes. 16 of the 18 volcanoes are entirely covered by the antarctic ice sheet. there have been no eruptions recorded from any of the volcanoes in this area, however scientists believe that some of the volcanoes may be potentially active. activity scientists and researchers debate whether or not the 138 identified possible volcanoes are active or dormant. it is very hard to definitively say, given that many of these volcanic structures are buried underneath several kilometers of ice. however, ash layers within the west antarctic ice sheet, as well as deformations in the ice surface indicate that the west antarctic rift system could be active and contain erupting volcanoes. additionally, seismic activity in the region hints at magma movement beneath the crust, a sign of volcanic activity. despite this, however, there is not yet definitive evidence of presently active volcanoes. subglacial volcanism is often characterized by ice melt and subglacial water. though there are other sources of subglac