terms such as " afterlife " to refer to any hope for the dead, but they understand ecclesiastes 9 : 5 to preclude belief in an immortal soul. individuals judged by god to be wicked, such as in the great flood or at armageddon, are given no hope of an afterlife. however, they believe that after armageddon there will be a bodily resurrection of " both righteous and unrighteous " dead ( but not the " wicked " ). survivors of armageddon and those who are resurrected are then to gradually restore earth to a paradise. after armageddon, unrepentant sinners are punished with eternal death ( non - existence ). seventh - day adventists the seventh - day adventist church ' s beliefs regarding the afterlife differ from other christian churches. rather than ascend to heaven or descend to hell, adventists believe the dead " remain unconscious until the return of christ in judgement ". the concept that the dead remain dead until resurrection is one of the fundamental beliefs of seventh - day adventism. adventists believe that death is an unconscious state ( a " sleep " ). this is based on matt. 9 : 24 ; mark 5 : 39 ; john 11 : 11 – 14 ; 1 cor. 15 : 51, 52 ; 1 thess. 4 : 13 – 17 ; 2 peter 3 : 4 ; eccl. 9 : 5, 6, 10. at death, all consciousness ends. the dead person does not know anything and does not do anything. they believe that death is a decreation, or an undoing of what was created. this is described in ecclesiastes 12 : 7 : " when a person dies, the body turns to dust again, and the spirit goes back to god, who gave it. " the spirit of every person who dies — whether saved or unsaved — returns to god at death. the spirit that returns to god at death is the breath of life. islam the quran ( the holy book of islam ), emphasizes the insignificance of worldly life ( hayat ad - dunya usually translated as " this world " ) vis - a - vis the hereafter. a central doctrine of islamic faith is the last day ( al - yawm al - akhir, also known by other names ), on which the world will come to an end and god will raise all mankind ( as well as the jinn ) from the dead and evaluate their worldly actions. the resurrected will be judged