of the 100 greatest britons. richard cavendish has written of him that " in native talent, penetrating intelligence and determination, aleister crowley was the best - equipped magician to emerge since the seventeenth century. " the scholar of esotericism egil asprem described him as " one of the most well - known figures in modern occultism ". the scholar of esotericism wouter hanegraaff asserted that crowley was an extreme representation of " the dark side of the occult ", adding that he was " the most notorious occultist magician of the twentieth century ". the philosopher john moore opined that crowley stood out as a " modern master " when compared with other prominent occult figures like george gurdjieff, p. d. ouspensky, rudolf steiner, or helena blavatsky, also describing him as a " living embodiment " of oswald spengler ' s " faustian man ". biographer tobias churton considered crowley " a pioneer of consciousness research ". hutton noted that crowley had " an important place in the history of modern western responses to oriental spiritual traditions ", while sutin thought that he had made " distinctly original contributions " to the study of yoga in the west. thelema continued to develop and spread following crowley ' s death. in 1969, the o. t. o. was reactivated in california under the leadership of grady louis mcmurtry ; in 1985 its right to the title was unsuccessfully challenged in court by a rival group, the society ordo templi orientis, led by brazilian thelemite marcelo ramos motta. another american thelemite is the filmmaker kenneth anger, who had been influenced by crowley ' s writings from a young age. in the united kingdom, kenneth grant propagated a tradition known as typhonian thelema through his organisation, the typhonian o. t. o., later renamed the typhonian order. also in britain, an occultist known as amado crowley claimed to be crowley ' s son ; this has been refuted by academic investigation. amado argued that thelema was a false religion created by crowley to hide his true esoteric teachings, which amado claimed to be propagating. several western esoteric traditions other than thelema were also influenced by crowley, with djurdjevic observing that " crowley ' s influence on twentieth - century and contemporary esotericism has been enormous ". gerald gardner, founder of gardnerian wicca, made use of much of crowley '