believed in the possibilities of using the eurovision song contest as a way to make the music business aware of them as songwriters, as well as the band itself. in late 1973, they were invited by swedish television to contribute a song for the melodifestivalen 1974 and from a number of new songs, the upbeat song " waterloo " was chosen ; the group were now inspired by the growing glam rock scene in england. abba won their nation ' s hearts on swedish television on 9 february 1974, and with this third attempt were far more experienced and better prepared for the eurovision song contest. winning the 1974 eurovision song contest on 6 april 1974 ( and singing " waterloo " in english instead of their native tongue ) gave abba the chance to tour europe and perform on major television shows ; thus the band saw the " waterloo " single chart in many european countries. following their success at the eurovision song contest, abba spent an evening of glory partying in the appropriately named first - floor napoleon suite of the grand brighton hotel. " waterloo " was abba ' s first major hit in numerous countries, becoming their first number - one single in nine western and northern european countries, including the big markets of the uk and west germany, and in south africa. it also made the top ten in several other countries, including rising to number three in spain, number four in australia and france, and number seven in canada. in the united states, the song peaked at number six on the billboard hot 100 chart, paving the way for their first album and their first trip as a group there. albeit a short promotional visit, it included their first performance on american television, the mike douglas show. the album waterloo only peaked at number 145 on the billboard 200 chart, but received unanimous high praise from the us critics : los angeles times called it " a compelling and fascinating debut album that captures the spirit of mainstream pop quite effectively... an immensely enjoyable and pleasant project ", while creem characterised it as " a perfect blend of exceptional, lovable compositions ". abba ' s follow - up single, " honey, honey ", peaked at number 27 on the us billboard hot 100, reached the top twenty in several other countries, and was a number - two hit in west germany although it only reached the top 30 in australia and the us. in the united kingdom, abba ' s british record label, epic, decided to re - release a remixed version of " ring ring " instead of " honey, honey ", and a cover version of