the amazon river (, ;, ) in south america is the largest river by discharge volume of water in the world, and the disputed longest river system in the world in comparison to the nile. the headwaters of the apurimac river on nevado mismi had been considered for nearly a century the amazon basin ' s most distant source until a 2014 study found it to be the headwaters of the mantaro river on the cordillera rumi cruz in peru. the mantaro and apurimac rivers join, and with other tributaries form the ucayali river, which in turn meets the maranon river upstream of iquitos, peru, forming what countries other than brazil consider to be the main stem of the amazon. brazilians call this section the solimoes river above its confluence with the rio negro forming what brazilians call the amazon at the meeting of waters ( ) at manaus, the largest city on the river. the amazon river has an average discharge of about — approximately per year, greater than the next seven largest independent rivers combined. two of the top ten rivers by discharge are tributaries of the amazon river. the amazon represents 20 % of the global riverine discharge into oceans. the amazon basin is the largest drainage basin in the world, with an area of approximately. the portion of the river ' s drainage basin in brazil alone is larger than any other river ' s basin. the amazon enters brazil with only one - fifth of the flow it finally discharges into the atlantic ocean, yet already has a greater flow at this point than the discharge of any other river. etymology the amazon was initially known by europeans as the maranon, and the peruvian part of the river is still known by that name today. it later became known as rio amazonas in spanish and portuguese. the name rio amazonas was reportedly given after native warriors attacked a 16th - century expedition by francisco de orellana. the warriors were led by women, reminding de orellana of the amazon warriors, a tribe of women warriors related to iranian scythians and sarmatians mentioned in greek mythology. the word amazon itself may be derived from the iranian compound * ha - maz - an - " ( one ) fighting together " or ethnonym * ha - mazan - " warriors ", a word attested indirectly through a derivation, a denominal verb in hesychius of alexandria ' s gloss ( " : ' to make war ' in persian " ), where it appears together with the indo - iranian root * ka