##y aachen basin ' s hot sulphur springs where they worshipped grannus, god of light and healing. later, the 25 - hectare roman spa resort town of aquae granni was, according to legend, founded by grenus, under hadrian, around 124 ad. instead, the fictitious founder refers to the celtic god, and it seems it was the roman 6th legion at the start of the 1st century ad that first channelled the hot springs into a spa at buchel, adding at the end of the same century the munstertherme spa, two water pipelines, and a probable sanctuary dedicated to grannus. a kind of forum, surrounded by colonnades, connected the two spa complexes. there was also an extensive residential area. the romans built bathhouses near burtscheid. a temple precinct called vernenum was built near the modern kornelimunster / walheim. today, remains have been found of three bathhouses, including two fountains in the elisenbrunnen and the burtscheid bathhouse. roman civil administration in aachen eventually broke down as the baths and other public buildings ( along with most of the villae rusticae of the surrounding countryside ) were destroyed around ad 375 at the start of the migration period. the last roman coin finds are from the time of emperor gratian ( ad 375 – 383 ). rome withdrew its troops from the area, but the town remained populated. by 470, the town came to be ruled by the ripuarian franks and subordinated to their capital, cologne. etymology the name aachen is a modern descendant, like southern german,, meaning " river " or " stream ", from old high german, meaning " water " or " stream ", which directly translates ( and etymologically corresponds ) to latin, referring to the springs. the location has been inhabited by humans since the neolithic era, about 5, 000 years ago, attracted to its warm mineral springs. latin figures in aachen ' s roman name, which meant " waters of grannus ", referring to the celtic god of healing who was worshipped at the springs. this word became in walloon and in french, and subsequently after charlemagne had his palatine chapel built there in the late 8th century and then made the city his empire ' s capital. as a spa city, aachen has the right to name itself bad aachen, but chooses not to, so it remains on the top of alphabetical lists. aachen ' s name in french and german evolved in parallel. the city is known by