demanding that the age of consent be raised. the government was forced to propose the criminal law amendment act 1885, which raised the age of consent from thirteen to sixteen and clamped down on prostitution. in the united states, as late as the 1880s most states set the minimum age at ten to twelve ( in delaware, it was seven in 1895 ). inspired by the " maiden tribute " articles, female reformers in the u. s. initiated their own campaign, which petitioned legislators to raise the legal minimum age to at least sixteen, with the ultimate goal to raise the age to eighteen. the campaign was successful, with almost all states raising the minimum age to sixteen to eighteen years by 1920. in france, portugal, denmark, the swiss cantons and other countries, the minimum age was raised to between thirteen and sixteen years in the following decades. though the original arguments for raising the age of consent were based on morality, since then the raison d ' etre of the laws has changed to child welfare and a so - called right to childhood or innocence. in france, under the napoleonic code, the age of consent was set in 1832 at eleven, and was raised to thirteen in 1863. it was increased to fifteen in 1945. in the 1970s, a group of prominent french intellectuals advocated for the repeal of the age of consent laws, but did not succeed. in spain, it was set in 1822 at " puberty age ", and changed to twelve in 1870, which was kept until 1999, when it became 13 ; and in 2015 it was raised to 16. 21st century in the 21st century, concerns about child sex tourism and commercial sexual exploitation of children gained prominence, resulting in legislative changes in multiple jurisdictions, as well as the adoption of international laws. the council of europe convention on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse ( lanzarote, 25 october 2007 ), and the european union ' s directive 2011 / 92 / eu of the european parliament and of the council of 13 december 2011 on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography were adopted. the optional protocol on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography came into force in 2002. the protocol to prevent, suppress and punish trafficking in persons, especially women and children, which came into force in 2003, prohibits commercial sexual exploitation of children. the council of europe convention on action against trafficking in human beings ( which came into force in 2008 ) also deals with commercial sexual exploitation of children. several western countries have raised their ages of consent in recent decades