, and asked him to teach him his faith. in response, nigrodha offered him a sermon on appamada ( earnestness ). impressed by the sermon, ashoka offered nigrodha 400, 000 silver coins and 8 daily portions of rice. the king became a buddhist upasaka, and started visiting the kukkutarama shrine at pataliputra. at the temple, he met the buddhist monk moggaliputta tissa, and became more devoted to the buddhist faith. the veracity of this story is not certain. this legend about ashoka ' s search for a worthy teacher may be aimed at explaining why ashoka did not adopt jainism, another major contemporary faith that advocates non - violence and compassion. the legend suggests that ashoka was not attracted to buddhism because he was looking for such a faith, rather, for a competent spiritual teacher. the sri lankan tradition adds that during his sixth regnal year, ashoka ' s son mahinda became a buddhist monk, and his daughter became a buddhist nun. a story in divyavadana attributes ashoka ' s conversion to the buddhist monk samudra, who was an ex - merchant from shravasti. according to this account, samudra was imprisoned in ashoka ' s " hell ", but saved himself using his miraculous powers. when ashoka heard about this, he visited the monk, and was further impressed by a series of miracles performed by the monk. he then became a buddhist. a story in the ashokavadana states that samudra was a merchant ' s son, and was a 12 - year - old boy when he met ashoka ; this account seems to be influenced by the nigrodha story. the a - yu - wang - chuan states that a 7 - year - old buddhist converted ashoka. another story claims that the young boy ate 500 brahmanas who were harassing ashoka for being interested in buddhism ; these brahmanas later miraculously turned into buddhist bhikkus at the kukkutarama monastery, which ashoka visited. several buddhist establishments existed in various parts of india by the time of ashoka ' s ascension. it is not clear which branch of the buddhist sangha influenced him, but the one at his capital pataliputra is a good candidate. another good candidate is the one at mahabodhi : the major rock edict 8 records his visit to the bodhi tree – the place of buddha ' s enlightenment at mahabodhi –