include discrete naming for ingredients and heavy influence from the natural elements. the silk road provided a clear path for the exchange of goods, ideas, ingredients, religion, and many other aspects of life with which alchemy is intertwined. whereas european alchemy eventually centered on the transmutation of base metals into noble metals, chinese alchemy had a more obvious connection to medicine. the philosopher ' s stone of european alchemists can be compared to the grand elixir of immortality sought by chinese alchemists. in the hermetic view, these two goals were not unconnected, and the philosopher ' s stone was often equated with the universal panacea ; therefore, the two traditions may have had more in common than initially appears. as early as 317 ad, ge hong documented the use of metals, minerals, and elixirs in early chinese medicine. hong identified three ancient chinese documents, titled scripture of great clarity, scripture of the nine elixirs, and scripture of the golden liquor, as texts containing fundamental alchemical information. he also described alchemy, along with meditation, as the sole spiritual practices that could allow one to gain immortality or to transcend. in his work inner chapters of the book of the master who embraces spontaneous nature ( 317 ad ), hong argued that alchemical solutions such as elixirs were preferable to traditional medicinal treatment due to the spiritual protection they could provide. in the centuries following ge hong ' s death, the emphasis placed on alchemy as a spiritual practice among chinese daoists was reduced. in 499 ad, tao hongjing refuted hong ' s statement that alchemy is as important a spiritual practice as shangqing meditation. while hongjing did not deny the power of alchemical elixirs to grant immortality or provide divine protection, he ultimately found the scripture of the nine elixirs to be ambiguous and spiritually unfulfilling, aiming to implement more accessible practicing techniques. in the early 700s, neidan ( also known as internal alchemy ) was adopted by daoists as a new form of alchemy. neidan emphasized appeasing the inner gods that inhabit the human body by practicing alchemy with compounds found in the body, rather than the mixing of natural resources that was emphasized in early dao alchemy. for example, saliva was often considered nourishment for the inner gods and did not require any conscious alchemical reaction to produce. the inner gods were not thought