hurricane otis on october 25, 2023, hurricane otis, a category 5 hurricane with 1 - minute sustained winds of, caused widespread devastation throughout the city while making landfall nearby. geography the city, located on the pacific coast of mexico in the state of guerrero, is classified as one of the state ' s seven regions, dividing the rest of the guerrero coast into the costa grande and the costa chica. forty percent of the municipality is mountainous terrain ; another forty percent is semi - flat ; and the other twenty percent is flat. elevation varies from sea level to. the highest peaks are potrero, san nicolas, and alto camaron. one major river runs through the municipality, the papagayo, along with a number of arroyos ( streams ). there are also two small lagoons, tres palos and coyuca, along with a number of thermal springs. climate acapulco features a tropical wet and dry climate ( koppen : aw ) : hot with distinct wet and dry seasons, with more even temperatures between seasons than resorts farther north in mexico, but this varies depending on altitude. the warmest areas are next to the sea where the city is. pacific hurricanes and tropical storms are threats from may through november ; notably, the city was struck directly by category 5 hurricane otis on october 25, 2023, which caused extensive damage. the forested area tends to lose leaves during the winter dry season, with evergreen pines in the highest elevations. fauna consists mostly of deer, small mammals, a wide variety of both land and seabirds, and marine animals such as turtles. oddly enough, january, its coolest month, also features its all - time record high. the temperature of the sea is quite stable, with lows of between january – march, and a high of in august. government as the seat of a municipality, the city of acapulco is the government authority for over 700 other communities, which together have a territory of 1, 880. 60 km2. this municipality borders the municipalities of chilpancingo, juan r escudero ( tierra colorada ), san marcos, coyuca de benitez with the pacific ocean to the south. the metropolitan area is made up of the municipalities of acapulco de juarez and coyuca de benitez. the area has a population ( ) of 786, 830. for the names and terms of some acapulco mayors, you can check a list of municipal presidents of acapulco