protect the adobe wall from water damage, but need to be reapplied periodically. alternatively, the walls can be finished with other nontraditional plasters that provide longer protection. bricks made with stabilized adobe generally do not need protection of plasters. adobe roof the traditional adobe roof has been constructed using a mixture of soil / clay, water, sand and organic materials. the mixture was then formed and pressed into wood forms, producing rows of dried earth bricks that would then be laid across a support structure of wood and plastered into place with more adobe. depending on the materials available, a roof may be assembled using wood or metal beams to create a framework to begin layering adobe bricks. depending on the thickness of the adobe bricks, the framework has been preformed using a steel framing and a layering of a metal fencing or wiring over the framework to allow an even load as masses of adobe are spread across the metal fencing like cob and allowed to air dry accordingly. this method was demonstrated with an adobe blend heavily impregnated with cement to allow even drying and prevent cracking. the more traditional flat adobe roofs are functional only in dry climates that are not exposed to snow loads. the heaviest wooden beams, called vigas, lie atop the wall. across the vigas lie smaller members called latillas and upon those brush is then laid. finally, the adobe layer is applied. to construct a flat adobe roof, beams of wood were laid to span the building, the ends of which were attached to the tops of the walls. once the vigas, latillas and brush are laid, adobe bricks are placed. an adobe roof is often laid with bricks slightly larger in width to ensure a greater expanse is covered when placing the bricks onto the roof. following each individual brick should be a layer of adobe mortar, recommended to be at least thick to make certain there is ample strength between the brick ' s edges and also to provide a relative moisture barrier during rain. roof design evolved around 1850 in the american southwest. three inches of adobe mud was applied on top of the latillas, then 18 inches of dry adobe dirt applied to the roof. the dirt was contoured into a low slope to a downspout aka a ' canal '. when moisture was applied to the roof the clay particles expanded to create a waterproof membrane. once a year it was necessary to pull the weeds from the roof and re - slope the dirt as needed. depending on the materials, adobe roofs can be inherently fire - proof. the construction of a