1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 ) are used. however, in egypt and arabic - speaking countries to the east of it, the eastern arabic numerals ( – – – – – – – – – ) are in use. when representing a number in arabic, the lowest - valued position is placed on the right, so the order of positions is the same as in left - to - right scripts. sequences of digits such as telephone numbers are read from left to right, but numbers are spoken in the traditional arabic fashion, with units and tens reversed from the modern english usage. for example, 24 is said " four and twenty " just like in the german language ( vierundzwanzig ) and classical hebrew, and 1975 is said " a thousand and nine - hundred and five and seventy " or, more eloquently, " a thousand and nine - hundred five seventy ". arabic alphabet and nationalism there have been many instances of national movements to convert arabic script into latin script or to romanize the language. currently, the only arabic variety to use latin script is maltese. lebanon the beirut newspaper la syrie pushed for the change from arabic script to latin letters in 1922. the major head of this movement was louis massignon, a french orientalist, who brought his concern before the arabic language academy in damascus in 1928. massignon ' s attempt at romanization failed as the academy and population viewed the proposal as an attempt from the western world to take over their country. sa ' id afghani, a member of the academy, mentioned that the movement to romanize the script was a zionist plan to dominate lebanon. said akl created a latin - based alphabet for lebanese and used it in a newspaper he founded, lebnaan, as well as in some books he wrote. egypt after the period of colonialism in egypt, egyptians were looking for a way to reclaim and re - emphasize egyptian culture. as a result, some egyptians pushed for an egyptianization of the arabic language in which the formal arabic and the colloquial arabic would be combined into one language and the latin alphabet would be used. there was also the idea of finding a way to use hieroglyphics instead of the latin alphabet, but this was seen as too complicated to use. a scholar, salama musa agreed with the idea of applying a latin alphabet to arabic, as he believed that would allow egypt to have a closer relationship with the west. he also believed that latin script was