' s career. the band created a basic rhythm track with a drummer, guitarist and bass player, and overlaid other arrangements and instruments. vocals were then added, and orchestra overdubs were usually left until last. faltskog and lyngstad contributed ideas at the studio stage. andersson and ulvaeus played them the backing tracks and they made comments and suggestions. according to faltskog, she and lyngstad had the final say in how the lyrics were shaped. after vocals and overdubs were done, the band took up to five days to mix a song. fashion, style, videos, advertising campaigns abba was widely noted for the colourful and trend - setting costumes its members wore. the reason for the wild costumes was swedish tax law : the cost of the clothes was deductible only if they could not be worn other than for performances. in their early years, group member anni - frid lyngstad designed and even hand sewed the outfits. later, as their success grew, they used professional theatrical clothes designer owe sandstrom together with tailor lars wigenius with lyngstad continuing to suggest ideas while co - ordinating the outfits with concert set designs. choreography by graham tainton also contributed to their performance style. the videos that accompanied some of the band ' s biggest hits are often cited as being among the earliest examples of the genre. most of abba ' s videos ( and abba : the movie ) were directed by lasse hallstrom, who would later direct the films my life as a dog, the cider house rules and chocolat. abba made videos because their songs were hits in many different countries and personal appearances were not always possible. this was also done in an effort to minimise travelling, particularly to countries that would have required extremely long flights. faltskog and ulvaeus had two young children and faltskog, who was also afraid of flying, was very reluctant to leave her children for such a long time. abba ' s manager, stig anderson, realised the potential of showing a simple video clip on television to publicise a single or album, thereby allowing easier and quicker exposure than a concert tour. some of these videos have become classics because of the 1970s - era costumes and early video effects, such as the grouping of the band members in different combinations of pairs, overlapping one singer ' s profile with the other ' s full face, and the contrasting of one member against another. in 1976