are modified into flippers. tuataras superficially resemble lizards but the lineages diverged in the triassic period. there is one living species, sphenodon punctatus. the skull has two openings ( fenestrae ) on either side and the jaw is rigidly attached to the skull. there is one row of teeth in the lower jaw and this fits between the two rows in the upper jaw when the animal chews. the teeth are merely projections of bony material from the jaw and eventually wear down. the brain and heart are more primitive than those of other reptiles, and the lungs have a single chamber and lack bronchi. the tuatara has a well - developed parietal eye on its forehead. lizards have skulls with only one fenestra on each side, the lower bar of bone below the second fenestra having been lost. this results in the jaws being less rigidly attached which allows the mouth to open wider. lizards are mostly quadrupeds, with the trunk held off the ground by short, sideways - facing legs, but a few species have no limbs and resemble snakes. lizards have moveable eyelids, eardrums are present and some species have a central parietal eye. snakes are closely related to lizards, having branched off from a common ancestral lineage during the cretaceous period, and they share many of the same features. the skeleton consists of a skull, a hyoid bone, spine and ribs though a few species retain a vestige of the pelvis and rear limbs in the form of pelvic spurs. the bar under the second fenestra has also been lost and the jaws have extreme flexibility allowing the snake to swallow its prey whole. snakes lack moveable eyelids, the eyes being covered by transparent " spectacle " scales. they do not have eardrums but can detect ground vibrations through the bones of their skull. their forked tongues are used as organs of taste and smell and some species have sensory pits on their heads enabling them to locate warm - blooded prey. crocodilians are large, low - slung aquatic reptiles with long snouts and large numbers of teeth. the head and trunk are dorso - ventrally flattened and the tail is laterally compressed. it undulates from side to side to force the animal through the water when swimming. the tough keratinized scales provide body armour and some are fused to the skull. the nostrils, eyes and ears are elevated above the top of the flat head enabling them to remain above the surface of the water when the