bus tours, as well as a classic greek dinner. cultural ties because of its classical hellenistic and greco - roman style, the ruins of mission san juan capistrano ' s great stone church in california, united states has been called an american acropolis. the civilization developed its religious, educational, and cultural aspects of the acropolis, and is used today as a location that holds events, such as operas. the neighborhood of morningside heights in new york city is commonly referred to as the " academic acropolis " due to its high elevation and the concentration of educational institutions in the area, including columbia university and its affiliates, barnard college, teachers college, union theological seminary and the jewish theological seminary of america ; manhattan school of music ; bank street college of education ; and new york theological seminary. the analogy is also aided by the neoclassical architecture of the columbia university campus, which was designed by mckim, mead & white in the early 20th century. excavations much of the modern - day uses of acropolises have been discovered through excavations that have developed over the course of many years. for example, the athenian acropolis includes a great temple that holds the parthenon, a specific space for ancient worship. through today ' s findings and research, the parthenon treasury is able to be recognized as the west part of the structure ( the erechtheion ), as well as the parthenon itself. most excavations have been able to provide archaeologists with samples of pottery, ceramics, and vessels. the excavation of the acropolis of halieis produced remains that provided context that dated the acropolis at halieis from the final neolithic period through the first early helladic period. see also acropolis of rhodes acropolis palaiokastro idjang tell ( archaeology ) hillfort references external links acropolis museum acropolis : description, photo album the acropolis of athens ( greek government website ) the acropolis restoration project ( greek government website ) the acropolis : a walk through history the parthenon frieze ( hellenic ministry of culture web site ) unesco world heritage centre — acropolis, athens ancient greek architecture culture of greece archaeological terminology ancient greek fortifications