graphite at high temperatures around 500 °c to form. apart from this, the alkali metals are such strong reducing agents that they can even reduce buckminsterfullerene to produce solid fullerides mnc60 ; sodium, potassium, rubidium, and caesium can form fullerides where n = 2, 3, 4, or 6, and rubidium and caesium additionally can achieve n = 1. when the alkali metals react with the heavier elements in the carbon group ( silicon, germanium, tin, and lead ), ionic substances with cage - like structures are formed, such as the silicides m4si4 ( m = k, rb, or cs ), which contains m + and tetrahedral ions. the chemistry of alkali metal germanides, involving the germanide ion ge4− and other cluster ( zintl ) ions such as,,, and [ ( ge9 ) 2 ] 6−, is largely analogous to that of the corresponding silicides. alkali metal stannides are mostly ionic, sometimes with the stannide ion ( sn4− ), and sometimes with more complex zintl ions such as, which appears in tetrapotassium nonastannide ( k4sn9 ). the monatomic plumbide ion ( pb4− ) is unknown, and indeed its formation is predicted to be energetically unfavourable ; alkali metal plumbides have complex zintl ions, such as. these alkali metal germanides, stannides, and plumbides may be produced by reducing germanium, tin, and lead with sodium metal in liquid ammonia. nitrides and pnictides lithium, the lightest of the alkali metals, is the only alkali metal which reacts with nitrogen at standard conditions, and its nitride is the only stable alkali metal nitride. nitrogen is an unreactive gas because breaking the strong triple bond in the dinitrogen molecule ( n2 ) requires a lot of energy. the formation of an alkali metal nitride would consume the ionisation energy of the alkali metal ( forming m + ions ), the energy required to break the triple bond in n2 and the formation of n3− ions, and all the energy released from the formation of an alkali metal nitride is from the lattice energy of the alkali metal nitride. the lattice energy is maximised with small, highly charged ions ;