information on this topic comes from apocryphal legends written hundreds of years after him. while these legends include obviously fictitious details such as narratives of ashoka ' s past lives, they have some plausible historical information about ashoka ' s period. according to the ashokavadana, bindusara disliked ashoka because of his rough skin. one day, bindusara asked the ascetic pingala - vatsajiva to determine which of his sons was worthy of being his successor. he asked all the princes to assemble at the garden of the golden pavilion on the ascetic ' s advice. ashoka was reluctant to go because his father disliked him, but his mother convinced him to do so. when minister radhagupta saw ashoka leaving the capital for the garden, he offered to provide the prince with a royal elephant for the travel. at the garden, pingala - vatsajiva examined the princes and realised that ashoka would be the next king. to avoid annoying bindusara, the ascetic refused to name the successor. instead, he said that one who had the best mount, seat, drink, vessel and food would be the next king ; each time, ashoka declared that he met the criterion. later, he told ashoka ' s mother that her son would be the next king, and on her advice, left the kingdom to avoid bindusara ' s wrath. while legends suggest that bindusara disliked ashoka ' s ugly appearance, they also state that bindusara gave him important responsibilities, such as suppressing a revolt in takshashila ( according to north indian tradition ) and governing ujjain ( according to sri lankan tradition ). this suggests that bindusara was impressed by the other qualities of the prince. another possibility is that he sent ashoka to distant regions to keep him away from the imperial capital. rebellion at taxila according to the ashokavadana, bindusara dispatched prince ashoka to suppress a rebellion in the city of takshashila ( present - day bhir mound in pakistan ). this episode is not mentioned in the sri lankan tradition, which instead states that bindusara sent ashoka to govern ujjain. two other buddhist texts – ashoka - sutra and kunala - sutra – state that bindusara appointed ashoka as a viceroy in gandhara ( where takshashila was located ), not ujjain. the ashokavadana states that bindusara provided ashoka with a four