##hronia was selected as the sci fi channel ' s " sci fi site of the week " twice. uchronia in spanish, french, german, portuguese, italian, catalan, and galician, the words,, and are native versions of alternate history, from which comes the english loanword uchronia. the english term uchronia is a neologism that is sometimes used in its original meaning as a straightforward synonym for alternate history, loyer, emmanuelle ( 2019 ). uchronia. booksandideas. net. schmid, helga ( 2020 ). uchronia : designing time. germany : walter de gruyter gmbh. p. 26 for example applied to alternate histories like philip k. dick ' s the man in the high castle and philip roth ' s the plot against america. however, it may also now refer to other concepts, namely an umbrella genre of fiction that encompasses alternate history, parallel universes in fiction, and fiction based in futuristic or non - temporal settings. craveiro, joanna ( 2016 ). a live / living museum of small, forgotten and unwanted memories : performing narratives, testimonies and archives of the portuguese dictatorship and revolution ( doctoral dissertation, university of roehampton ), p. 46. see also 20th century in science fiction alien space bats alternate ending alternative future american civil war alternate histories dieselpunk dystopian fictional universe future history the garden of forking paths historical revisionism hypothetical axis victory in world war ii invasion literature jonbar hinge list of alternate history fiction possible worlds pulp novels ruritanian romance references further reading chapman, edgar l., and carl b. yoke ( eds. ). classic and iconoclastic alternate history science fiction. mellen, 2003. collins, william joseph. paths not taken : the development, structure, and aesthetics of the alternative history. university of california at davis 1990. darius, julian. " 58 varieties : watchmen and revisionism ". in minutes to midnight : twelve essays on watchmen. sequart research & literacy organization, 2010. focuses on watchmen as alternate history. cowley, robert, ed., what if? military historians imagine what might have been. pan books, 1999. gevers, nicholas. mirrors of the past : versions of history in science fiction and fantasy. university of cape town, 1997 hellekson, karen. the alternate history : refiguring historical time. kent state university press, 2001 keen, antony g. " alternate histories of the roman empire