adopt this strategy under appropriate environmental circumstances. lungless salamanders in the family plethodontidae are terrestrial and lay a small number of unpigmented eggs in a cluster among damp leaf litter. each egg has a large yolk sac and the larva feeds on this while it develops inside the egg, emerging fully formed as a juvenile salamander. the female salamander often broods the eggs. in the genus ensatinas, the female has been observed to coil around them and press her throat area against them, effectively massaging them with a mucous secretion. in newts and salamanders, metamorphosis is less dramatic than in frogs. this is because the larvae are already carnivorous and continue to feed as predators when they are adults so few changes are needed to their digestive systems. their lungs are functional early, but the larvae do not make as much use of them as do tadpoles. their gills are never covered by gill sacs and are reabsorbed just before the animals leave the water. other changes include the reduction in size or loss of tail fins, the closure of gill slits, thickening of the skin, the development of eyelids, and certain changes in dentition and tongue structure. salamanders are at their most vulnerable at metamorphosis as swimming speeds are reduced and transforming tails are encumbrances on land. adult salamanders often have an aquatic phase in spring and summer, and a land phase in winter. for adaptation to a water phase, prolactin is the required hormone, and for adaptation to the land phase, thyroxine. external gills do not return in subsequent aquatic phases because these are completely absorbed upon leaving the water for the first time. caecilians most terrestrial caecilians that lay eggs do so in burrows or moist places on land near bodies of water. the development of the young of ichthyophis glutinosus, a species from sri lanka, has been much studied. the eel - like larvae hatch out of the eggs and make their way to water. they have three pairs of external red feathery gills, a blunt head with two rudimentary eyes, a lateral line system and a short tail with fins. they swim by undulating their body from side to side. they are mostly active at night, soon lose their gills and make sorties onto land. metamorphosis is gradual. by the age of about ten months they have developed a pointed head with sensory tentacles