important part in the cult of the god, especially in the oracular shrine of delphi ( omphalos ). minoan origin george huxley regarded the identification of apollo with the minoan deity paiawon, worshipped in crete, to have originated at delphi. in the homeric hymn, apollo appeared as a dolphin and carried cretan priests to delphi, where they evidently transferred their religious practices. apollo delphinios or delphidios was a sea - god especially worshipped in crete and in the islands. apollo ' s sister artemis, who was the greek goddess of hunting, is identified with britomartis ( diktynna ), the minoan " mistress of the animals ". in her earliest depictions she was accompanied by the " master of the animals ", a bow - wielding god of hunting whose name has been lost ; aspects of this figure may have been absorbed into the more popular apollo. anatolian origin a non - greek origin of apollo has long been assumed in scholarship. the name of apollo ' s mother leto has lydian origin, and she was worshipped on the coasts of asia minor. the inspiration oracular cult was probably introduced into greece from anatolia, which is the origin of sibyl, and where some of the oldest oracular shrines originated. omens, symbols, purifications, and exorcisms appear in old assyro - babylonian texts. these rituals were spread into the empire of the hittites, and from there into greece. homer pictures apollo on the side of the trojans, fighting against the achaeans, during the trojan war. he is pictured as a terrible god, less trusted by the greeks than other gods. the god seems to be related to appaliunas, a tutelary god of wilusa ( troy ) in asia minor, but the word is not complete. the stones found in front of the gates of homeric troy were the symbols of apollo. a western anatolian origin may also be bolstered by references to the parallel worship of artimus ( artemis ) and qλdans, whose name may be cognate with the hittite and doric forms, in surviving lydian texts. however, recent scholars have cast doubt on the identification of qλdans with apollo. the greeks gave to him the name agyieus as the protector god of public places and houses who wards off evil and his symbol was a tapered stone or column. however, while usually greek festivals were