- relativistic quantum mechanics, therefore, any atom with an atomic number greater than 137 would require its 1s electrons to be traveling faster than the speed of light. even in the dirac equation, which accounts for relativistic effects, the wave function of the electron for atoms with is oscillatory and unbounded. the significance of element 137, also known as untriseptium, was first pointed out by the physicist richard feynman. element 137 is sometimes informally called feynmanium ( symbol fy ). however, feynman ' s approximation fails to predict the exact critical value of due to the non - point - charge nature of the nucleus and very small orbital radius of inner electrons, resulting in a potential seen by inner electrons which is effectively less than. the critical value, which makes the atom unstable with regard to high - field breakdown of the vacuum and production of electron - positron pairs, does not occur until is about 173. these conditions are not seen except transiently in collisions of very heavy nuclei such as lead or uranium in accelerators, where such electron - positron production from these effects has been claimed to be observed. there are no nodes in relativistic orbital densities, although individual components of the wave function will have nodes. pp hybridization ( conjectured ) in late period 8 elements, a hybrid of 8p3 / 2 and 9p1 / 2 is expected to exist, where " 3 / 2 " and " 1 / 2 " refer to the total angular momentum quantum number. this " pp " hybrid may be responsible for the p - block of the period due to properties similar to p subshells in ordinary valence shells. energy levels of 8p3 / 2 and 9p1 / 2 come close due to relativistic spin – orbit effects ; the 9s subshell should also participate, as these elements are expected to be analogous to the respective 5p elements indium through xenon. transitions between orbitals bound quantum states have discrete energy levels. when applied to atomic orbitals, this means that the energy differences between states are also discrete. a transition between these states ( i. e., an electron absorbing or emitting a photon ) can thus happen only if the photon has an energy corresponding with the exact energy difference between said states. consider two states of the hydrogen atom : state,, and state,, and by quantum theory, state 1 has a fixed energy of, and state 2 has