to use the term " afro - german " in a hip hop context. this was part of the pro - immigrant political message they sent via their music. while advanced chemistry ' s use of the german language in their rap allows them to make claims to authenticity and true german heritage, bolstering pro - immigration sentiment, their style can also be problematic for immigrant notions of any real ethnic roots. indeed, part of the turkish ethnic minority of frankfurt views advanced chemistry ' s appeal to the german image as a " symbolic betrayal of the right of ethnic minorities to ' roots ' or to any expression of cultural heritage. " in this sense, their rap represents a complex social discourse internal to the german soundscape in which they attempt to negotiate immigrant assimilation into a xenophobic german culture with the maintenance of their own separate cultural traditions. it is quite possibly the feelings of alienation from the pure - blooded german demographic that drive advanced chemistry to attack nationalistic ideologies by asserting their " germanness " as a group composed primarily of ethnic others. the response to this pseudo - german authenticity can be seen in what andy bennett refers to as " alternative forms of local hip hop culture which actively seek to rediscover and, in many cases, reconstruct notions of identity tied to cultural roots. " these alternative local hip hop cultures include oriental hip hop, the members of which cling to their turkish heritage and are confused by advanced chemistry ' s elicitation of a german identity politics to which they technically do not belong. this cultural binary illustrates that rap has taken different routes in germany and that, even among an already isolated immigrant population, there is still disunity and, especially, disagreement on the relative importance of assimilation versus cultural defiance. according to german hip hop enthusiast 9 @ home, advanced chemistry is part of a " hip - hop movement [ which ] took a clear stance for the minorities and against the [ marginalization ] of immigrants who... might be german on paper, but not in real life, " which speaks to the group ' s hope of actually being recognized as german citizens and not foreigners, despite their various other ethnic and cultural ties. influences advanced chemistry ' s work was rooted in german history and the country ' s specific political realities. however, they also drew inspiration from african - american hip - hop acts like a tribe called quest and public enemy, who had helped bring a soulful sound and political consciousness to american hip - hop. one member, torch, later explicitly listed his references on his solo song " als ( when