case before the united states supreme court in 1999. the two plaintiffs, lois curtis and e. w., were institutionalized in georgia for diagnosed " mental retardation " and schizophrenia. clinical assessments by the state determined that the plaintiffs could be appropriately treated in a community setting rather than the state institution. the plaintiffs sued the state of georgia and the institution for being inappropriately treated and housed in the institutional setting rather than being treated in one of the state ' s community - based treatment facilities. the supreme court decided under title ii of the ada that mental illness is a form of disability and therefore covered under the ada, and that unjustified institutional isolation of a person with a disability is a form of discrimination because it "... perpetuates unwarranted assumptions that persons so isolated are incapable or unworthy of participating in community life. " the court added, " confinement in an institution severely diminishes the everyday life activities of individuals, including family relations, social contacts, work options, economic independence, educational advancement, and cultural enrichment. " therefore, under title ii no person with a disability can be unjustly excluded from participation in or be denied the benefits of services, programs or activities of any public entity. michigan paralyzed veterans of america v. the university of michigan michigan paralyzed veterans of america v. the university of michigan was a case filed before the united states district court for the eastern district of michigan southern division. it was filed on behalf of the michigan paralyzed veterans of america against university of michigan – michigan stadium claiming that michigan stadium violated the americans with disabilities act in its $ 226 - million renovation by failing to add enough seats for disabled fans or accommodate the needs for disabled restrooms, concessions and parking. additionally, the distribution of the accessible seating was at issue, with nearly all the seats being provided in the end - zone areas. the u. s. department of justice assisted in the suit filed by attorney richard bernstein of the law offices of sam bernstein in farmington hills, michigan, which was settled in march 2008. the settlement required the stadium to add 329 wheelchair seats throughout the stadium by 2010, and an additional 135 accessible seats in clubhouses to go along with the existing 88 wheelchair seats. this case was significant because it set a precedent for the uniform distribution of accessible seating and gave the doj the opportunity to clarify previously unclear rules. the agreement now is a blueprint for all stadiums and other public facilities regarding accessibility. paralyzed veterans of america v. ellerbe becket architects and engineers one of the first