they have been used as one of the chief tools for determining whether a language belongs to the family. however, there is no consensus on what the reconstructed set of afroasiatic pronouns might have looked like. a common characteristic of aa languages is the existence of a special set of " independent " pronouns, which are distinct from subject pronouns. they can occur together with subject pronouns but cannot fulfill an object function. also common are dependent / affix pronouns ( used for direct objects and to mark possession ). for most branches, the first person pronouns contain a nasal consonant ( n, m ), whereas the third person displays a sibilant consonant ( s, sh ). other commonalities are masculine and feminine forms used in both the second and third persons, except in cushitic and omotic. these pronouns tend to show a masculine " u " and a feminine " i ". the omotic forms of the personal pronouns differ from the others, with only the plural forms in north omotic appearing potentially to be cognate. numerals unlike in the indo - european or austronesian language families, numerals in aa languages cannot be traced to a proto - system. the cushitic and chadic numeral systems appear to have originally been base 5. the system in berber, egyptian, and semitic, however, has independent words for the numbers 6 – 9. thus, it is possible that the numerals in egyptian, berber, and semitic are more closely related, whereas the cushitic and chadic numerals are more closely related to each other. modern chadic numeral systems are sometimes decimal, having separate names for the numbers 1 – 10, and sometimes base - 5, deriving the numbers 6 – 9 from the numbers 1 – 5 in some way. some families show more than one word for a numeral : chadic, semitic, and berber each have two words for two, and semitic has four words for one. andrzej zaborski further notes that the numbers " one ", " two ", and " five " are particularly susceptible to replacement by new words, with " five " often based on a word meaning " hand ". another factor making comparisons of aa numeral systems difficult is the possibility of borrowing. only some berber languages maintain the native berber numeral system, with many using arabic loans for higher numbers and some from any numeral beyond two. in some berber languages, the roots for one and two are also borrowed from arabic. some south cushitic numeral