firm run in the same location by michael balcon, later known as gainsborough pictures. hitchcock worked on woman to woman ( 1923 ) with the director graham cutts, designing the set, writing the script and producing. he said : " it was the first film that i had really got my hands onto. " the editor and " script girl " on woman to woman was alma reville, his future wife. he also worked as an assistant to cutts on the white shadow ( 1924 ), the passionate adventure ( 1924 ), the blackguard ( 1925 ) and the prude ' s fall ( 1925 ). the blackguard was produced at the babelsberg studios in potsdam, where hitchcock watched part of the making of f. w. murnau ' s the last laugh ( 1924 ). he was impressed with murnau ' s work, and later used many of his techniques for the set design in his own productions. in the summer of 1925, balcon asked hitchcock to direct the pleasure garden ( 1925 ), starring virginia valli, a co - production of gainsborough and the german firm emelka at the geiselgasteig studio near munich. reville, by then hitchcock ' s fiancee, was assistant director - editor. although the film was a commercial flop, balcon liked hitchcock ' s work ; a daily express headline called him the " young man with a master mind ". production of the pleasure garden encountered obstacles which hitchcock would later learn from : on arrival to brenner pass, he failed to declare his film stock to customs and it was confiscated ; one actress could not enter the water for a scene because she was on her period ; budget overruns meant that he had to borrow money from the actors. hitchcock also needed a translator to give instructions to the cast and crew. in germany, hitchcock observed the nuances of german cinema and filmmaking which had a big influence on him. when he was not working, he would visit berlin ' s art galleries, concerts and museums. he would also meet with actors, writers and producers to build connections. balcon asked him to direct a second film in munich, the mountain eagle ( 1926 ), based on an original story titled fear o ' god. the film is lost, and hitchcock called it " a very bad movie ". a year later, hitchcock wrote and directed the ring ; although the screenplay was credited solely to his name, elliot stannard assisted him with the writing. the ring garnered positive reviews ; the bioscope critic called it " the most