combined mises ' austrian school of economics with the absolutist views of human rights and rejection of the state he had absorbed from studying the individualist american anarchists of the 19th century such as tucker and spooner. in the mid - 1950s, rothbard wrote an unpublished article named " are libertarians ' anarchists '? " under the pseudonym " aubrey herbert ", concerned with differentiating himself from communist and socialistic economic views of anarchists, including the individualist anarchists of the 19th century, concluding that " we are not anarchists and that those who call us anarchists are not on firm etymological ground and are being completely unhistorical. on the other hand, it is clear that we are not archists either : we do not believe in establishing a tyrannical central authority that will coerce the noninvasive as well as the invasive. perhaps, then, we could call ourselves by a new name : nonarchist. " joe peacott, an american individualist anarchist in the mutualist tradition, criticizes anarcho - capitalists for trying to hegemonize the individualist anarchism label and make appear as if all individualist anarchists are in favor of capitalism. peacott states that " individualists, both past and present, agree with the communist anarchists that present - day capitalism is based on economic coercion, not on voluntary contract. rent and interest are the mainstays of modern capitalism and are protected and enforced by the state. without these two unjust institutions, capitalism could not exist ". anarchist activists and scholars do not consider anarcho - capitalism as a part of the anarchist movement, arguing that anarchism has historically been an anti - capitalist movement and see it as incompatible with capitalist forms. although some regard anarcho - capitalism as a form of individualist anarchism, many others disagree or contest the existence of an individualist – socialist divide. in coming to terms that anarchists mostly identified with socialism, rothbard wrote that individualist anarchism is different from anarcho - capitalism and other capitalist theories due to the individualist anarchists retaining the labor theory of value and socialist doctrines. similarly, many writers deny that anarcho - capitalism is a form of anarchism or that capitalism is compatible with anarchism. the palgrave handbook of anarchism writes that " [ a ] s benjamin franks rightly points out, individualisms that defend or reinforce hierarchical forms such as the economic - power relations of