##yre on a decade - century scale, associated with the north atlantic oscillation, are especially pronounced in labrador sea water, the upper layers of the moc. the south atlantic is dominated by the anti - cyclonic southern subtropical gyre. the south atlantic central water originates in this gyre, while antarctic intermediate water originates in the upper layers of the circumpolar region, near the drake passage and the falkland islands. both these currents receive some contribution from the indian ocean. on the african east coast, the small cyclonic angola gyre lies embedded in the large subtropical gyre. the southern subtropical gyre is partly masked by a wind - induced ekman layer. the residence time of the gyre is 4. 4 – 8. 5 years. north atlantic deep water flows southward below the thermocline of the subtropical gyre. sargasso sea the sargasso sea in the western north atlantic can be defined as the area where two species of sargassum ( s. fluitans and natans ) float, an area wide and encircled by the gulf stream, north atlantic drift, and north equatorial current. this population of seaweed probably originated from tertiary ancestors on the european shores of the former tethys ocean and has, if so, maintained itself by vegetative growth, floating in the ocean for millions of years. other species endemic to the sargasso sea include the sargassum fish, a predator with algae - like appendages which hovers motionless among the sargassum. fossils of similar fishes have been found in fossil bays of the former tethys ocean, in what is now the carpathian region, that were similar to the sargasso sea. it is possible that the population in the sargasso sea migrated to the atlantic as the tethys closed at the end of the miocene around 17 ma. the origin of the sargasso fauna and flora remained enigmatic for centuries. the fossils found in the carpathians in the mid - 20th century often called the " quasi - sargasso assemblage ", finally showed that this assemblage originated in the carpathian basin from where it migrated over sicily to the central atlantic where it evolved into modern species of the sargasso sea. the location of the spawning ground for european eels remained unknown for decades. in the early 19th century it was discovered that the southern sargasso sea is the spawning ground for both the european and american eel and that the former migrate more than and the latter. ocean currents such