supposed that the different refractive indices in different directions within the same medium were due to a directional variation in elasticity, not density ( because the concept of mass per unit volume is not directional ). but in his treatment of partial reflection, he supposed that the different refractive indices of different media were due to different aether densities, not different elasticities. the latter decision, although puzzling in the context of double refraction, was consistent with the earlier treatment of aether drag. in 1846, george gabriel stokes pointed out that there was no need to divide the aether inside a moving object into two portions ; all of it could be considered as moving at a common velocity. then, if the aether was conserved while its density changed in proportion to, the resulting velocity of the aether inside the object was equal to fresnel ' s additional velocity component. dispersion the analogy between light waves and transverse waves in elastic solids does not predict dispersion — that is, the frequency - dependence of the speed of propagation, which enables prisms to produce spectra and causes lenses to suffer from chromatic aberration. fresnel, in de la lumiere and in the second supplement to his first memoir on double refraction, suggested that dispersion could be accounted for if the particles of the medium exerted forces on each other over distances that were significant fractions of a wavelength. later, more than once, fresnel referred to the demonstration of this result as being contained in a note appended to his " second memoir " on double refraction. no such note appeared in print, and the relevant manuscripts found after his death showed only that, around 1824, he was comparing refractive indices ( measured by fraunhofer ) with a theoretical formula, the meaning of which was not fully explained. in the 1830s, fresnel ' s suggestion was taken up by cauchy, baden powell, and philip kelland, and it was found to be tolerably consistent with the variation of refractive indices with wavelength over the visible spectrum for a variety of transparent media. these investigations were enough to show that the wave theory was at least compatible with dispersion ; if the model of dispersion was to be accurate over a wider range of frequencies, it needed to be modified so as to take account of resonances within the medium. conical refraction the analytical complexity of fresnel ' s derivation of the ray - velocity surface was an implicit challenge to find a shorter path to the result.