as pseudo - callisthenes. this text underwent numerous expansions and revisions throughout antiquity and the middle ages, containing many dubious stories, and was translated into numerous languages, for example middle persian, syriac and probably arabic. in ancient and modern culture alexander the great ' s accomplishments and legacy have been depicted in many cultures. alexander has figured in both high and popular culture beginning in his own era to the present day. the alexander romance, in particular, has had a significant impact on portrayals of alexander in later cultures, from persian to medieval european to modern greek. alexander features prominently in modern greek folklore, more so than any other ancient figure. the colloquial form of his name in modern greek ( " o megalexandros " ) is a household name, and he is the only ancient hero to appear in the karagiozis shadow play. one well - known fable among greek seamen involves a solitary mermaid who would grasp a ship ' s prow during a storm and ask the captain " is king alexander alive? " the correct answer is " he is alive and well and rules the world! " causing the mermaid to vanish and the sea to calm. any other answer would cause the mermaid to turn into a raging gorgon who would drag the ship to the bottom of the sea, all hands aboard. in pre - islamic middle persian ( zoroastrian ) literature, alexander is referred to by the epithet gujastak, meaning " accursed ", and is accused of destroying temples and burning the sacred texts of zoroastrianism. in islamic persia, under the influence of the alexander romance ( in iskandarnamah ), a more positive portrayal of alexander emerges. firdausi ' s shahnameh ( " the book of kings " ) includes alexander in a line of legitimate persian shahs, a mythical figure who explored the far reaches of the world in search of the fountain of youth. in the shahnameh, alexander ' s first journey is to mecca to pray at the kaaba. alexander was depicted as performing a hajj ( pilgrimage to mecca ) many times in subsequent islamic art and literature. later persian writers associate him with philosophy, portraying him at a symposium with figures such as socrates, plato and aristotle, in search of immortality. the figure of dhu al - qarnayn ( literally " the two - horned one " ) mentioned in the quran is believed by scholars to be based on later legends of alexander. in this tradition, he was a heroic