the oldest remains in the aljaferia palace, together with other interesting elements like capitals, reliefs and inscriptions, were made using alabaster, but it was during the artistic and economic blossoming of the renaissance that aragonese alabaster reached its golden age. in the 16th century sculptors in aragon chose alabaster for their best works. they were adept at exploiting its lighting qualities and generally speaking the finished art pieces retained their natural color. volterra ( tuscany ) in europe, the centre of the alabaster trade today is florence, italy. tuscan alabaster occurs in nodular masses embedded in limestone, interstratified with marls of miocene and pliocene age. the mineral is worked largely by means of underground galleries, in the district of volterra. several varieties are recognized — veined, spotted, clouded, agatiform, and others. the finest kind, obtained principally from castellina, is sent to florence for figure - sculpture, while the common kinds are carved locally, into vases, lights, and various ornamental objects. these items are objects of extensive trade, especially in florence, pisa, and livorno. in the 3rd century bc the etruscans used the alabaster of tuscany from the area of modern - day volterra to produce funeral urns, possibly taught by greek artists. during the middle ages the craft of alabaster was almost completely forgotten. a revival started in the mid - 16th century, and until the beginning of the 17th century alabaster work was strictly artistic and did not expand to form a large industry. in the 17th and 18th centuries production of artistic, high - quality renaissance - style artifacts stopped altogether, being replaced by less sophisticated, cheaper items better suited for large - scale production and commerce. the new industry prospered, but the reduced need of skilled craftsmen left only few still working. the 19th century brought a boom to the industry, largely due to the " traveling artisans " who went and offered their wares to the palaces of europe, as well as to america and the east. in the 19th century new processing technology was also introduced, allowing for the production of custom - made, unique pieces, as well as the combination of alabaster with other materials. apart from the newly developed craft, artistic work became again possible, chiefly by volterran sculptor albino funaioli. after a short slump, the industry was revived again by the sale of mass - produced mannerist expressionist sculptures, and was further enhanced