thus necessitating precautions when handling them. they often form dimers, unlike their boron analogues, but this tendency diminishes for branched - chain alkyls ( e. g. pri, bui, me3cch2 ) ; for example, triisobutylaluminium exists as an equilibrium mixture of the monomer and dimer. these dimers, such as trimethylaluminium ( al2me6 ), usually feature tetrahedral al centers formed by dimerization with some alkyl group bridging between both aluminium atoms. they are hard acids and react readily with ligands, forming adducts. in industry, they are mostly used in alkene insertion reactions, as discovered by karl ziegler, most importantly in " growth reactions " that form long - chain unbranched primary alkenes and alcohols, and in the low - pressure polymerization of ethene and propene. there are also some heterocyclic and cluster organoaluminium compounds involving al – n bonds. the industrially most important aluminium hydride is lithium aluminium hydride ( lialh4 ), which is used in as a reducing agent in organic chemistry. it can be produced from lithium hydride and aluminium trichloride. the simplest hydride, aluminium hydride or alane, is not as important. it is a polymer with the formula ( alh3 ) n, in contrast to the corresponding boron hydride that is a dimer with the formula ( bh3 ) 2. natural occurrence space aluminium ' s per - particle abundance in the solar system is 3. 15 ppm ( parts per million ). it is the twelfth most abundant of all elements and third most abundant among the elements that have odd atomic numbers, after hydrogen and nitrogen. the only stable isotope of aluminium, 27al, is the eighteenth most abundant nucleus in the universe. it is created almost entirely after fusion of carbon in massive stars that will later become type ii supernovas : this fusion creates 26mg, which, upon capturing free protons and neutrons becomes aluminium. some smaller quantities of 27al are created in hydrogen burning shells of evolved stars, where 26mg can capture free protons. essentially all aluminium now in existence is 27al. 26al was present in the early solar system with abundance of 0. 005 % relative to 27al but its half - life of 728, 000 years is too short for any