audi ag ( ) is a german automotive manufacturer of luxury vehicles headquartered in ingolstadt, bavaria, germany. a subsidiary of the volkswagen group, audi produces vehicles in nine production facilities worldwide. the origins of the company are complex, dating back to the early 20th century and the initial enterprises ( horch and the audiwerke ) founded by engineer august horch ( 1868 – 1951 ). two other manufacturers ( dkw and wanderer ) also contributed to the foundation of auto union in 1932. the modern audi era began in the 1960s, when auto union was acquired by volkswagen from daimler - benz. after relaunching the audi brand with the 1965 introduction of the audi f103 series, volkswagen merged auto union with nsu motorenwerke in 1969, thus creating the present - day form of the company. the company name is based on the latin translation of the surname of the founder, august horch., meaning " listen ", becomes in latin. the four rings of the audi logo each represent one of four car companies that banded together to create audi ' s predecessor company, auto union. audi ' s slogan is, which is translated as " progress through technology ". audi, along with german brands bmw and mercedes - benz, is among the best - selling luxury automobile brands in the world. history birth of the company and its name automobile company wanderer was originally established in 1885, later becoming a branch of audi ag. another company, nsu, which also later merged into audi, was founded during this time, and later supplied the chassis for gottlieb daimler ' s four - wheeler. on 14 november 1899, august horch ( 1868 – 1951 ) established the company a. horch & cie. in the ehrenfeld district of cologne. in 1902, he moved with his company to reichenbach im vogtland. on 10 may 1904, he founded the august horch & cie. motorwagenwerke ag, a joint - stock company in zwickau ( state of saxony ). after troubles with horch chief financial officer, august horch left motorwagenwerke and founded in zwickau on 16 july 1909, his second company, the august horch automobilwerke gmbh. his former partners sued him for trademark infringement. the german reichsgericht ( supreme court ) in leipzig, eventually determined that the horch brand belonged to his former company. since august horch was prohibited from using " horch " as a trade name in his