1971 and was in contact with them until his death in 1986. initially he wanted to shoot a film based on their novel dead mountaineer ' s hotel and he developed a raw script. influenced by a discussion with arkady strugatsky he changed his plan and began to work on the script based on roadside picnic. work on this film began in 1976. the production was mired in troubles ; improper development of the negatives had ruined all the exterior shots. tarkovsky ' s relationship with cinematographer georgy rerberg deteriorated to the point where he hired alexander knyazhinsky as a new first cinematographer. furthermore, tarkovsky had a heart attack in april 1978, resulting in further delay. the film was completed in 1979 and won the prize of the ecumenical jury at the cannes film festival. in a question and answer session at the edinburgh filmhouse on 11 february 1981, tarkovsky trenchantly rejected suggestions that the film was either impenetrably mysterious or a political allegory. in 1979, tarkovsky began production of the film the first day ( russian : первыи день pervyj dyen ), based on a script by his friend and long - term collaborator andrei konchalovsky. the film was set in 18th - century russia during the reign of peter the great and starred natalya bondarchuk and anatoli papanov. to get the project approved by goskino, tarkovsky submitted a script that was different from the original script, omitting several scenes that were critical of the official atheism in the soviet union. after shooting roughly half of the film the project was stopped by goskino after it became apparent that the film differed from the script submitted to the censors. tarkovsky was reportedly infuriated by this interruption and destroyed most of the film. film career outside the soviet union during the summer of 1979, tarkovsky traveled to italy, where he shot the documentary voyage in time together with his long - time friend tonino guerra. tarkovsky returned to italy in 1980 for an extended trip, during which he and guerra completed the script for the film nostalghia. during this period, he took polaroid photographs depicting his personal life. tarkovsky returned to italy in 1982 to start shooting nostalghia, but mosfilm then withdrew from the project, so he sought and received financial backing from the italian rai. tarkovsky completed the film in 1983, and it was presented at the cannes film festival where it won the fipres