afonso v ( ) ( 15 january 1432 – 28 august 1481 ), known by the sobriquet the african ( ), was king of portugal from 1438 until his death in 1481, with a brief interruption in 1477. his sobriquet refers to his military conquests in northern africa. early life afonso was born in sintra, the second son of king edward of portugal by his wife eleanor of aragon. following the death of his older brother, infante joao ( 1429 – 1433 ), afonso acceded to the position of heir apparent and was made the first prince of portugal by his father, who sought to emulate the english court ' s custom of a dynastic title that distinguished the heir apparent from the other children of the monarch. he was only six years old when he succeeded his father in 1438. during his minority, afonso was placed under the regency of his mother, eleanor, in accordance with the will left by his late father. as both a foreigner and a woman, the queen was not a popular choice for regent. when the cortes met in late 1438, a law was passed requiring a joint regency consisting of eleanor and pedro, duke of coimbra, the younger brother of the late king. the dual regency was a failure and in 1439, the cortes named pedro " protector and guardian " of the king and " ruler and defender " of the kingdom. eleanor attempted to resist, but without support in portugal she fled to castile. pedro ' s main policies were concerned with restricting the political power of the great noble houses and expanding the powers of the crown. the country prospered under his rule, but not peacefully, as his laws interfered with the ambition of powerful nobles. the count of barcelos, a personal enemy of the duke of coimbra ( despite being half - brothers ) eventually became the king ' s favourite uncle and began a constant struggle for power. in 1442, the king made the count his uncle afonso the first duke of braganza. with this title and its lands, he became the most powerful man in portugal and one of the richest men in europe. to secure his position as regent, pedro had afonso marry his daughter, isabella of coimbra, in 1445. but on 9 june 1448, when the king came of age, pedro had to surrender his power to afonso v. the years of conspiracy by the duke of braganza finally came to a