until zahir shah was overthrown in 1973, following which the republic of afghanistan was established. since the late 1970s, afghanistan ' s history has been dominated by extensive warfare, including coups, invasions, insurgencies, and civil wars. the conflict began in 1978 when a communist revolution established a socialist state, and subsequent infighting prompted the soviet union to invade afghanistan in 1979. mujahideen fought against the soviets in the soviet – afghan war and continued fighting amongst themselves following the soviets ' withdrawal in 1989. the islamic fundamentalist taliban controlled most of the country by 1996, but their islamic emirate of afghanistan received little international recognition before its overthrow in the 2001 us invasion of afghanistan. the taliban returned to power in 2021 after capturing kabul and overthrowing the government of the islamic republic of afghanistan, ending the 2001 – 2021 war. in september 2021 the taliban re - established the islamic emirate of afghanistan. the taliban government remains internationally unrecognized. afghanistan is rich in natural resources, including lithium, iron, zinc, and copper. it is also the world ' s largest producer of opium, second largest producer of cannabis resin, and third largest of both saffron and cashmere. the country is a member of the south asian association for regional cooperation and a founding member of the organization of islamic cooperation. due to the effects of war in recent decades, the country has dealt with high levels of terrorism, poverty, and child malnutrition. afghanistan remains among the world ' s least developed countries, ranking 180th in the human development index. afghanistan ' s gross domestic product ( gdp ) is $ 81 billion by purchasing power parity and $ 20. 1 billion by nominal values. per capita, its gdp is amongst the lowest of any country. etymology some scholars suggest that the root name afghan is derived from the sanskrit word asvakan, which was the name used for ancient inhabitants of the hindu kush. asvakan literally means " horsemen ", " horse breeders ", or " cavalrymen " ( from asva, the sanskrit and avestan words for " horse " ). historically, the ethnonym afghan was used to refer to ethnic pashtuns. the arabic and persian form of the name, afgan, was first attested in the 10th - century geography book hudud al - ' alam. the last part of the name, " - stan ", is a persian suffix meaning " place of ". therefore, " afghanistan " translates to " land of the afghans ", or