julius caesar. roman citizens adopted into a new family usually retained their old nomen in cognomen form ( e. g., octavianus for one who had been an octavius, aemilianus for one who had been an aemilius, etc. ). however, though some of his contemporaries did, there is no evidence that octavius officially used the name octavianus, as it would have made his modest origins too obvious. historians usually refer to the new caesar as " octavian " during the time between his adoption and his assumption of the name augustus in 27 bc in order to avoid confusing the dead dictator with his heir. octavian could not rely on his limited funds to make a successful entry into the upper echelons of the roman political hierarchy. after a warm welcome by caesar ' s soldiers at brundisium, octavian demanded a portion of the funds that were allotted by caesar for the intended war against the parthian empire in the middle east. this amounted to 700 million sesterces stored at brundisium, the staging ground in italy for military operations in the east. a later senatorial investigation into the disappearance of the public funds took no action against octavian since he subsequently used that money to raise troops against the senate ' s arch enemy mark antony. octavian made another bold move in 44 bc when, without official permission, he appropriated the annual tribute that had been sent from rome ' s near eastern province to italy. octavian began to bolster his personal forces with caesar ' s veteran legionaries and with troops designated for the parthian war, gathering support by emphasizing his status as heir to caesar. on his march to rome through italy, octavian ' s presence and newly acquired funds attracted many, winning over caesar ' s former veterans stationed in campania. by june, he had gathered an army of 3, 000 loyal veterans, paying each a bonus of 500 denarii. growing tensions arriving in rome on 6 may 44 bc, octavian found consul mark antony, caesar ' s former colleague, in an uneasy truce with the dictator ' s assassins. they had been granted a general amnesty on 17 march, yet antony had succeeded in driving most of them out of rome with an inflammatory eulogy at caesar ' s funeral, mounting public opinion against the assassins. mark antony was amassing political support, but octavian still had the opportunity to rival him as the leading member of the faction supporting caesar. antony had lost the support of many romans and supporters of caesar when he