campaigned against magan which also revolted ; naram - sin " marched against magan and personally caught mandannu, its king ", where he instated garrisons to protect the main roads. the chief threat seemed to be coming from the northern zagros mountains, the lulubis and the gutians. a campaign against the lullubi led to the carving of the " victory stele of naram - suen ", now in the louvre. hittite sources claim naram - sin of akkad even ventured into anatolia, battling the hittite and hurrian kings pamba of hatti, zipani of kanesh, and 15 others. the economy was highly planned. grain was cleaned, and rations of grain and oil were distributed in standardized vessels made by the city ' s potters. taxes were paid in produce and labour on public walls, including city walls, temples, irrigation canals and waterways, producing huge agricultural surpluses. this newfound akkadian wealth may have been based upon benign climatic conditions, huge agricultural surpluses and the confiscation of the wealth of other peoples. in later assyrian and babylonian texts, the name akkad, together with sumer, appears as part of the royal title, as in the sumerian lugal ki - en - gi ki - uri or akkadian sar mat sumeri u akkadi, translating to " king of sumer and akkad ". this title was assumed by the king who seized control of nippur, the intellectual and religious center of southern mesopotamia. during the akkadian period, the akkadian language became the lingua franca of the middle east, and was officially used for administration, although the sumerian language remained as a spoken and literary language. the spread of akkadian stretched from syria to elam, and even the elamite language was temporarily written in mesopotamian cuneiform. akkadian texts later found their way to far - off places, from egypt ( in the amarna period ) and anatolia, to persia ( behistun ). submission of sumerian kings the submission of some sumerian rulers to the akkadian empire, is recorded in the seal inscriptions of sumerian rulers such as lugal - ushumgal, governor ( ensi ) of lagash ( " shirpula " ), circa 2230 – 2210 bc. several inscriptions of lugal - ushumgal are known, particularly seal impressions, which refer to him as governor