wherein the gothic chief and some of his most precious spoils were interred. when the work was finished, the river was turned back into its usual channel and the captives by whose hands the labor had been accomplished were put to death that none might learn their secret. aftermath alaric was succeeded in the command of the gothic army by his brother - in - law, ataulf, who married honorius ' sister galla placidia three years later. following in the wake of alaric ' s leadership, which kulikowski claims, had given his people " a sense of community that survived his own death... alaric ' s goths remained together inside the empire, going on to settle in gaul. there, in the province of aquitaine, they put down roots and created the first autonomous barbarian kingdom inside the frontiers of the roman empire. " the goths were able to settle in aquitaine only after honorius granted the once roman province to them, sometime in 418 or 419. not long after alaric ' s exploits in rome and athaulf ' s settlement in aquitaine, there is a " rapid emergence of germanic barbarian groups in the west " who begin controlling many western provinces. these barbarian peoples included : vandals in spain and africa, visigoths in spain and aquitaine, burgundians along the upper rhine and southern gaul, and franks on the lower rhine and in northern and central gaul. sources the chief authorities on the career of alaric are : the historian orosius and the poet claudian, both contemporary, neither disinterested ; zosimus, a historian who lived probably about half a century after alaric ' s death ; and jordanes, a goth who wrote the history of his nation in 551, basing his work on cassiodorus ' s gothic history. see also alaric ii gaiseric odoacer references notes citations bibliography online external links alaric i edward gibbon, history of the decline and fall of the roman empire, chapter 30 and chapter 31. the legend of alaric ' s burial for a modern - day novel exploring the historical sources relating to alaric ' s riverbed grave, see alaric ' s gold by robert fortune | - 410 deaths 5th - century visigothic monarchs balt dynasty people from tulcea county 5th - century arian christians ancient italian history gothic warriors 4th - century monarchs in europe year of birth unknown 4th - century gothic people 390s in the byzantine empire