man greatly impressed kurosawa, but managed to alienate most of the other judges. drunken angel is often considered the director ' s first major work. although the script, like all of kurosawa ' s occupation - era works, had to go through rewrites due to american censorship, kurosawa felt that this was the first film in which he was able to express himself freely. a gritty story of a doctor who tries to save a gangster ( yakuza ) with tuberculosis, it was also the first time that kurosawa directed mifune, who went on to play major roles in all but one of the director ' s next 16 films ( the exception being ). while mifune was not cast as the protagonist in drunken angel, his explosive performance as the gangster so dominates the drama that he shifted the focus from the title character, the alcoholic doctor played by takashi shimura, who had already appeared in several kurosawa movies. however, kurosawa did not want to smother the young actor ' s immense vitality, and mifune ' s rebellious character electrified audiences in much the way that marlon brando ' s defiant stance would startle american film audiences a few years later. the film premiered in tokyo in april 1948 to rave reviews and was chosen by the prestigious kinema junpo critics poll as the best film of its year, the first of three kurosawa movies to be so honored. kurosawa, with producer sojiro motoki and fellow directors and friends kajiro yamamoto, mikio naruse and senkichi taniguchi, formed a new independent production unit called film art association ( eiga geijutsu kyokai ). for this organization ' s debut work, and first film for daiei studios, kurosawa turned to a contemporary play by kazuo kikuta and, together with taniguchi, adapted it for the screen. the quiet duel starred toshiro mifune as an idealistic young doctor struggling with syphilis, a deliberate attempt by kurosawa to break the actor away from being typecast as gangsters. released in march 1949, it was a box office success, but is generally considered one of the director ' s lesser achievements. his second film of 1949, also produced by film art association and released by shintoho, was stray dog. it is a detective movie ( perhaps the first important japanese film in that genre ) that explores the mood of japan during its painful