. discrimination against lgbt people in azerbaijan is widespread. during the last few years, three journalists were killed and several prosecuted in trials described as unfair by international human rights organizations. azerbaijan had the biggest number of journalists imprisoned in europe in 2015, according to the committee to protect journalists, and is the 5th most censored country in the world, ahead of iran and china. some critical journalists have been arrested for their coverage of the covid - 19 pandemic in azerbaijan. a report by an amnesty international researcher in october 2015 points to "... the severe deterioration of human rights in azerbaijan over the past few years. sadly azerbaijan has been allowed to get away with unprecedented levels of repression and in the process almost wipe out its civil society. " amnesty ' s 2015 / 16 annual report on the country stated "... persecution of political dissent continued. human rights organizations remained unable to resume their work. at least 18 prisoners of conscience remained in detention at the end of the year. reprisals against independent journalists and activists persisted both in the country and abroad, while their family members also faced harassment and arrests. international human rights monitors were barred and expelled from the country. reports of torture and other ill - treatment persisted. " the guardian reported in april 2017 that " azerbaijan ' s ruling elite operated a secret $ 2. 9bn ( £2. 2bn ) scheme to pay prominent europeans, buy luxury goods and launder money through a network of opaque british companies.... leaked data shows that the azerbaijani leadership, accused of serial human rights abuses, systemic corruption and rigging elections, made more than 16, 000 covert payments from 2012 to 2014. some of this money went to politicians and journalists, as part of an international lobbying operation to deflect criticism of azerbaijan ' s president, ilham aliyev, and to promote a positive image of his oil - rich country. " there was no suggestion that all recipients were aware of the source of the money as it arrived via a disguised route. sport freestyle wrestling has been traditionally regarded as azerbaijan ' s national sport, in which azerbaijan won up to fourteen medals, including four golds since joining the international olympic committee. currently, the most popular sports include football and wrestling. football is the most popular sport in azerbaijan, and the association of football federations of azerbaijan with 9, 122 registered players, is the largest sporting association in the country. the national football team of azerbaijan demonstrates relatively low performance in the international arena compared to the nation football clubs. the most successful azerbaijani football clubs are neft