move which required him to become an austrian citizen of the austro - hungarian empire. his time in prague saw him producing eleven research papers. in july 1912, he returned to his alma mater, the eth zurich, to take up a chair in theoretical physics. his teaching activities there centred on thermodynamics and analytical mechanics, and his research interests included the molecular theory of heat, continuum mechanics and the development of a relativistic theory of gravitation. in his work on the latter topic, he was assisted by his friend, marcel grossmann, whose knowledge of the kind of mathematics required was greater than his own. in the spring of 1913, two german visitors, max planck and walther nernst, called upon einstein in zurich in the hope of persuading him to relocate to berlin. they offered him membership of the prussian academy of sciences, the directorship of the planned kaiser wilhelm institute for physics and a chair at the humboldt university of berlin that would allow him to pursue his research supported by a professorial salary but with no teaching duties to burden him. their invitation was all the more appealing to him because berlin happened to be the home of his latest girlfriend, elsa lowenthal. he duly joined the academy on 24 july 1913, and moved into an apartment in the berlin district of dahlem on 1 april 1914. he was installed in his humboldt university position shortly thereafter. the outbreak of the first world war in july 1914 marked the beginning of einstein ' s gradual estrangement from the nation of his birth. when the " manifesto of the ninety - three " was published in october 1914 — a document signed by a host of prominent german thinkers that justified germany ' s belligerence — einstein was one of the few german intellectuals to distance himself from it and sign the alternative, eirenic " manifesto to the europeans " instead. but this expression of his doubts about german policy did not prevent him from being elected to a two - year term as president of the german physical society in 1916. and when the kaiser wilhelm institute for physics opened its doors the following year — its foundation delayed because of the war — einstein was appointed its first director, just as planck and nernst had promised. einstein was elected a foreign member of the royal netherlands academy of arts and sciences in 1920, and a foreign member of the royal society in 1921. in 1922, he was awarded the 1921 nobel prize in physics " for his services to theoretical physics, and especially for his discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect ".