and he told tom snyder in 1973 that he was " scared stiff of anything... to do with the law " and that he would refuse to even drive a car in case he got a parking ticket. when he was six, the family moved to limehouse and leased two stores at 130 and 175 salmon lane, which they ran as a fish - and - chip shop and fishmongers ' respectively ; they lived above the former. hitchcock attended his first school, the howrah house convent in poplar, which he entered in 1907, at age 7. according to biographer patrick mcgilligan, he stayed at howrah house for at most two years. he also attended a convent school, the wode street school " for the daughters of gentlemen and little boys " run by the faithful companions of jesus. he then attended a primary school near his home and was for a short time a boarder at salesian college in battersea. the family moved again when hitchcock was eleven, this time to stepney, and on 5 october 1910 he was sent to st ignatius college in stamford hill, a jesuit grammar school with a reputation for discipline. as corporal punishment, the priests used a flat, hard, springy tool made of gutta - percha and known as a " ferula " which struck the whole palm ; punishment was always at the end of the day, so the boys had to sit through classes anticipating the punishment if they had been written up for it. he later said that this is where he developed his sense of fear. the school register lists his year of birth as 1900 rather than 1899 ; biographer donald spoto says he was deliberately enrolled as a ten - year - old because he was a year behind with his schooling. while biographer gene adair reports that hitchcock was " an average, or slightly above - average, pupil ", hitchcock said that he was " usually among the four or five at the top of the class " ; at the end of his first year, his work in latin, english, french and religious education was noted. he told peter bogdanovich : " the jesuits taught me organisation, control and, to some degree, analysis. " hitchcock ' s favourite subject was geography and he became interested in maps and the timetables of trains, trams and buses ; according to john russell taylor, he could recite all the stops on the orient express. he had a particular interest in london trams. an overwhelming majority of his films include rail or tram scenes, in particular the lady vanishes, strangers on a train