agnostida are an order of extinct arthropods which have classically been seen as a group of highly modified trilobites, though some recent research has doubted this placement. regardless, they appear to be close relatives as part of the artiopoda. they are present in the lower cambrian fossil record along with trilobites from the redlichiida, corynexochida, and ptychopariida orders, and were highly diverse throughout the cambrian. agnostidan diversity severely declined during the cambrian - ordovician transition, and the last agnostidans went extinct in the late ordovician. systematics the agnostida are divided into two suborders — agnostina and eodiscina — which are then subdivided into a number of families. as a group, agnostids are isopygous, meaning their pygidium is similar in size and shape to their cephalon. most agnostid species were eyeless. the systematic position of the order agnostida within the class trilobita remains uncertain, and there has been continuing debate whether they are trilobites or a stem group. the challenge to the status has focused on agnostina partly due to the juveniles of one genus have been found with legs differing dramatically from those of adult trilobites, suggesting they are not members of the lamellipedian clade, of which trilobites are a part. instead, the limbs of agnostids closely resemble those of stem group crustaceans, although they lack the proximal endite, which defines that group. the study suggested that they were likely the sister taxon to the crustacean stem lineage, and, as such, part of the clade, crustaceomorpha. other researchers have suggested, based on a cladistic analyses of dorsal exoskeletal features, that eodiscina and agnostida are closely united, and the eodiscina descended from the trilobite order ptychopariida. a 2019 study of adult specimens with preserved soft tissue from the burgess shale found that agnostidans shared morphological similarities to trilobites and other related artiopodans like nektaspids, and their placement as stem - crustaceans was unsupported. the study recovered agnostidans as the sister group to other trilobites within the artiopoda.