##ula berber, and probably a convert rather than a born muslim. his name can be read as " son of ya - sin " ( the title of the 36th surah of the quran ), suggesting he had obliterated his family past and was " re - born " of the holy book. ibn yasin certainly had the ardor of a puritan zealot ; his creed was mainly characterized by a rigid formalism and a strict adherence to the dictates of the quran, and the orthodox tradition. ( chroniclers such as al - bakri allege ibn yasin ' s learning was superficial. ) ibn yasin ' s initial meetings with the guddala people went poorly. as he had more ardor than depth, ibn yasin ' s arguments were disputed by his audience. he responded to questioning with charges of apostasy and handed out harsh punishments for the slightest deviations. the guddala soon had enough and expelled him almost immediately after the death of his protector, yahya ibn ibrahim, sometime in the 1040s. ibn yasin, however, found a more favorable reception among the neighboring lamtuna people. probably sensing the useful organizing power of ibn yasin ' s pious fervor, the lamtuna chieftain yahya ibn umar al - lamtuni invited the man to preach to his people. the lamtuna leaders, however, kept ibn yasin on a careful leash, forging a more productive partnership between them. invoking stories of the early life of muhammad, ibn yasin preached that conquest was a necessary addendum to islamicization, that it was not enough to merely adhere to god ' s law, but necessary to also destroy opposition to it. in ibn yasin ' s ideology, anything and everything outside of islamic law could be characterized as " opposition ". he identified tribalism, in particular, as an obstacle. he believed it was not enough to urge his audiences to put aside their blood loyalties and ethnic differences, and embrace the equality of all muslims under the sacred law, it was necessary to make them do so. for the lamtuna leadership, this new ideology dovetailed with their long desire to refound the sanhaja union and recover their lost dominions. in the early 1050s, the lamtuna, under the joint leadership of yahya ibn umar and abdallah ibn yasin — soon calling themselves the al - murabitin ( almoravids ) — set out on a campaign to bring their neighbors over