early life afonso de albuquerque was born in 1453 in alhandra, near lisbon. he was the second son of goncalo de albuquerque, lord of vila verde dos francos, and dona leonor de menezes. his father held an important position at court and was connected by remote illegitimate descent with the portuguese monarchy. he was a descendant of king denis ’ s illegitimate son, afonso sanches, lord of albuquerque. he was educated in mathematics and latin at the court of afonso v of portugal, where he befriended prince john, the future king john ii of portugal. early military service in 1471, under the command of afonso v, he was present at the conquest of tangier and arzila in morocco, and he served there as an officer for some years. in 1476, he accompanied prince john in wars against castile, including the battle of toro. he participated in the campaign on the italian peninsula in 1480 to assist ferdinand i of naples in repelling the ottoman invasion of otranto. on his return in 1481, when john was crowned as king john ii, albuquerque was made master of the horse and chief equerry ( ) to the king, a post which he held throughout john ' s reign. in 1489, he returned to military campaigning in north africa, as commander of defense in the graciosa fortress, an island in the river luco near the city of larache. in 1490 albuquerque was part of the guard of john ii. he returned to arzila in 1495, where his younger brother martim died fighting by his side. first expedition to india, 1503 when king manuel i of portugal ascended to the throne following the death of his cousin john ii, he held a cautious attitude towards albuquerque, who was a close friend of his predecessor and seventeen years manuel ' s senior. eight years later, on 6 april 1503 albuquerque was sent on his first expedition to india together with his cousin francisco de albuquerque. each commanded three ships, sailing with duarte pacheco pereira and nicolau coelho. they engaged in several battles against the forces of the zamorin of calicut ( calecute, kozhikode ) and succeeded in establishing the king of cochin ( cohim, kochi ) securely on his throne. in return, the king of cochin gave the portuguese permission to build the portuguese fort immanuel ( fort kochi ) and establish trade relations with quilon ( coulao, kollam ).