as evidenced by the edwin smith and ebers papyri ( ), is first credited to egypt. the egyptians created their own alphabet and decimal system. faience and glass even before the old kingdom, the ancient egyptians had developed a glassy material known as faience, which they treated as a type of artificial semi - precious stone. faience is a non - clay ceramic made of silica, small amounts of lime and soda, and a colorant, typically copper. the material was used to make beads, tiles, figurines, and small wares. several methods can be used to create faience, but typically production involved application of the powdered materials in the form of a paste over a clay core, which was then fired. by a related technique, the ancient egyptians produced a pigment known as egyptian blue, also called blue frit, which is produced by fusing ( or sintering ) silica, copper, lime, and an alkali such as natron. the product can be ground up and used as a pigment. the ancient egyptians could fabricate a wide variety of objects from glass with great skill, but it is not clear whether they developed the process independently. it is also unclear whether they made their own raw glass or merely imported pre - made ingots, which they melted and finished. however, they did have technical expertise in making objects, as well as adding trace elements to control the color of the finished glass. a range of colors could be produced, including yellow, red, green, blue, purple, and white, and the glass could be made either transparent or opaque. medicine the medical problems of the ancient egyptians stemmed directly from their environment. living and working close to the nile brought hazards from malaria and debilitating schistosomiasis parasites, which caused liver and intestinal damage. dangerous wildlife such as crocodiles and hippos were also a common threat. the lifelong labors of farming and building put stress on the spine and joints, and traumatic injuries from construction and warfare all took a significant toll on the body. the grit and sand from stone - ground flour abraded teeth, leaving them susceptible to abscesses ( though caries were rare ). the diets of the wealthy were rich in sugars, which promoted periodontal disease. despite the flattering physiques portrayed on tomb walls, the overweight mummies of many of the upper class show the effects of a life of overindulgence. adult life expectancy was about 35 for men and