) characters. encodings include iscii ( india ), viscii ( vietnam ). although these encodings are sometimes referred to as ascii, true ascii is defined strictly only by the ansi standard. most early home computer systems developed their own 8 - bit character sets containing line - drawing and game glyphs, and often filled in some or all of the control characters from 0 to 31 with more graphics. kaypro cp / m computers used the " upper " 128 characters for the greek alphabet. the petscii code commodore international used for their 8 - bit systems is probably unique among post - 1970 codes in being based on ascii - 1963, instead of the more common ascii - 1967, such as found on the zx spectrum computer. atari 8 - bit computers and galaksija computers also used ascii variants. the ibm pc defined code page 437, which replaced the control characters with graphic symbols such as smiley faces, and mapped additional graphic characters to the upper 128 positions. operating systems such as dos supported these code pages, and manufacturers of ibm pcs supported them in hardware. digital equipment corporation developed the multinational character set ( dec - mcs ) for use in the popular vt220 terminal as one of the first extensions designed more for international languages than for block graphics. the macintosh defined mac os roman and postscript defined another character set : both sets contained " international " letters, typographic symbols and punctuation marks instead of graphics, more like modern character sets. the iso / iec 8859 standard ( derived from the dec - mcs ) finally provided a standard that most systems copied ( at least as accurately as they copied ascii, but with many substitutions ). a popular further extension designed by microsoft, windows - 1252 ( often mislabeled as iso - 8859 - 1 ), added the typographic punctuation marks needed for traditional text printing. iso - 8859 - 1, windows - 1252, and the original 7 - bit ascii were the most common character encodings until 2008 when utf - 8 became more common. iso / iec 4873 introduced 32 additional control codes defined in the 80 – 9f hexadecimal range, as part of extending the 7 - bit ascii encoding to become an 8 - bit system. unicode unicode and the iso / iec 10646 universal character set ( ucs ) have a much wider array of characters and their various encoding forms have begun to supp