railway station of abensberg was converted into a theatre by local volunteers. the " theater am bahnhof " ( theatre at the railway station ) is mostly used by the theatergruppe lampenfieber and was opened on 19 october 2008. museums abensberg has a long tradition of museums. in the nineteenth century, nicholas stark und peter paul dollinger began a collection based on local history. this collection and the collection of the heimatverein ( local history society ) were united in 1963 into the aventinus museum, in the cloister of the former carmelite monastery. on 7 july 2006, the new town museum of abensberg was opened in the former duke ' s castle in the town. kuchlbauer brewery two blocks west of the old town is the kuchlbauer brewery and beer garden featuring the kuchlbauer tower, a colorful and unconventional observation tower designed by viennese architect friedensreich hundertwasser. the brewery and tower are open to the public. image gallery missing memorial up until the 1950s, abensberg and the surrounding villages contained a number of graves of victims of a death march in the spring of 1945 from the hersbruck sub - camp of the dachau concentration camp, who were either murdered by the ss or died of exhaustion. they were originally buried where they died, but were later moved on the orders of the us military government to the cemeteries of their previous homes. at the cemetery in what is now the district of pullach stood a memorial stone which was mentioned as recently as 1967, but which is no longer at the site. the suffering of ten unknown victims of the camp was recorded on the stone. regular events the abensberger events calendar begins in february with the faschingsgillamoos funfair, which reaches its high point on mad thursday. there then follows the fruhjahrsmarkt ( spring market ) two weeks before easter, when all the shops in the town are permitted to open on sunday ( which is normally prohibited in germany ). the burgerfest is celebrated on the first weekend of july, when the palace gardens with their ancient walls are transformed into a medieval camp. the schlossgartenfest ( palace garden festival ) takes place every year at the beginning of august. it is organised since 1977 by the junge union, the youth branch of germany ' s two main conservative political parties, the cdu and csu, and attracts all age groups from abensberg and surrounding areas. on the second