dump more heat. some scientists state that the heart would have had trouble sustaining sufficient blood pressure to oxygenate the brain. others suggest that the near - horizontal posture of the head and neck would have eliminated the problem of supplying blood to the brain because it would not have been elevated. james farlow ( 1987 ) calculates that an apatosaurus - sized dinosaur about would have possessed of fermentation contents. assuming apatosaurus had an avian respiratory system and a reptilian resting - metabolism, frank paladino etal. ( 1997 ) estimate the animal would have needed to consume only about of water per day. growth a 1999 microscopic study of apatosaurus and brontosaurus bones concluded the animals grew rapidly when young and reached near - adult sizes in about 10years. in 2008, a study on the growth rates of sauropods was published by thomas lehman and holly woodward. they said that by using growth lines and length - to - mass ratios, apatosaurus would have grown to 25t ( 25 long tons ; 28 short tons ) in 15years, with growth peaking at in a single year. an alternative method, using limb length and body mass, found apatosaurus grew per year, and reached its full mass before it was about 70years old. these estimates have been called unreliable because the calculation methods are not sound ; old growth lines would have been obliterated by bone remodelling. one of the first identified growth factors of apatosaurus was the number of sacral vertebrae, which increased to five by the time of the creature ' s maturity. this was first noted in 1903 and again in 1936. long - bone histology enables researchers to estimate the age that a specific individual reached. a study by eva griebeler etal. ( 2013 ) examined long - bone histological data and concluded the apatosaurus sp. sma0014 weighed, reached sexual maturity at 21years, and died aged 28. the same growth model indicated apatosaurus sp. byu 601 – 17328 weighed, reached sexual maturity at 19years, and died aged 31. juveniles compared with most sauropods, a relatively large amount of juvenile material is known from apatosaurus. multiple specimens in the omnh are from juveniles of an undetermined species of apatosaurus ; this material includes partial shoulder and pelvic girdles, some vertebrae, and limb bones. omnh juvenile material is from at least two different age groups and based on overlapping bones likely