, he petitioned a federal court for his freedom. his petition was denied in dred scott v. sandford ( 1857 ). in his opinion, supreme court chief justice roger b. taney wrote that black people were not citizens and derived no rights from the constitution, and that the missouri compromise was unconstitutional for infringing upon slave owners ' " property " rights. while many democrats hoped that dred scott would end the dispute over slavery in the territories, the decision sparked further outrage in the north. lincoln denounced it as the product of a conspiracy of democrats to support the slave power. he argued the decision was at variance with the declaration of independence ; he said that while the founding fathers did not believe all men equal in every respect, they believed all men were equal " in certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness ". lincoln – douglas debates and cooper union speech in 1858, douglas was up for re - election in the u. s. senate, and lincoln hoped to defeat him. many in the party felt that a former whig should be nominated in 1858, and lincoln ' s 1856 campaigning and support of trumbull had earned him a favor. some eastern republicans supported douglas for his opposition to the lecompton constitution and admission of kansas as a slave state. many illinois republicans resented this eastern interference. for the first time, illinois republicans held a convention to agree upon a senate candidate, and lincoln won the nomination with little opposition. lincoln accepted the nomination with great enthusiasm and zeal. after his nomination he delivered his house divided speech, with the biblical reference mark 3 : 25, " a house divided against itself cannot stand. i believe this government cannot endure permanently half slave and half free. i do not expect the union to be dissolved — i do not expect the house to fall — but i do expect it will cease to be divided. it will become all one thing, or all the other. " the speech created a stark image of the danger of disunion. the stage was then set for the election of the illinois legislature which would, in turn, select lincoln or douglas. when informed of lincoln ' s nomination, douglas stated, " [ lincoln ] is the strong man of the party... and if i beat him, my victory will be hardly won. " the senate campaign featured seven debates between lincoln and douglas. these were the most famous political debates in american history ; they had an atmosphere akin to a prizefight and drew crowds in the thousands. the principals stood in