americans self - identified as being black hebrew israelites. causes antisemitism has been explained in terms of racism, xenophobia, projected guilt, displaced aggression, and the search for a scapegoat. some explanations assign partial blame to the perception of jewish people as unsociable. such a perception may have arisen by many jews having strictly kept to their own communities, with their own practices and laws. it has also been suggested that parts of antisemitism arose from a perception of jewish people as greedy ( as often used in stereotypes of jews ), and this perception has probably evolved in europe during medieval times where a large portion of money lending was operated by jews. factors contributing to this situation included that jews were restricted from other professions, while the christian church declared for their followers that money lending constituted immoral " usury ". prevention through education education plays an important role in addressing and overcoming prejudice and countering social discrimination. however, education is not only about challenging the conditions of intolerance and ignorance in which antisemitism manifests itself ; it is also about building a sense of global citizenship and solidarity, respect for, and enjoyment of diversity and the ability to live peacefully together as active, democratic citizens. education equips learners with the knowledge to identify antisemitism and biased or prejudiced messages and raises awareness about the forms, manifestations, and impact of antisemitism faced by jews and jewish communities. geographical variation a march 2008 report by the u. s. state department found that there was an increase in antisemitism across the world, and that both old and new expressions of antisemitism persist. a 2012 report by the u. s. bureau of democracy, human rights and labor also noted a continued global increase in antisemitism, and found that holocaust denial and opposition to israeli policy at times was used to promote or justify blatant antisemitism. in 2014, the anti - defamation league conducted a study titled global 100 : an index of anti - semitism, which also reported high antisemitism figures around the world and, among other findings, that as many as " 27 % of people who have never met a jew nevertheless harbor strong prejudices against him ". see also 1968 polish political crisis anti - antisemitism anti - jewish violence in eastern europe, 1944 – 1946 anti - middle eastern sentiment anti - semite and jew antisemitism around the world antisemitism in the anti - globalization movement antisemit