english established church, there is no need for a description ; it is simply the church of england, though the word protestant is used in many legal acts specifying the succession to the crown and qualifications for office. when the union with ireland act created the united church of england and ireland, it is specified that it shall be one " protestant episcopal church ", thereby distinguishing its form of church government from the presbyterian polity that prevails in the church of scotland. the word episcopal is preferred in the title of the episcopal church ( the province of the anglican communion covering the united states ) and the scottish episcopal church, though the full name of the former is the protestant episcopal church in the united states of america. elsewhere, however, the term anglican church came to be preferred as it distinguished these churches from others that maintain an episcopal polity. definition anglicanism, in its structures, theology, and forms of worship, is commonly understood as a distinct christian tradition representing a middle ground between what are perceived to be the extremes of the claims of 16th - century roman catholicism and the lutheran and reformed varieties of protestantism of that era. as such, it is often referred to as being a via media ( ' middle way ' ) between these traditions. the faith of anglicans is founded in the scriptures and the gospels, the traditions of the apostolic church, the historical episcopate, the first four ecumenical councils, and the early church fathers ( among these councils, especially the premier four ones, and among these fathers, especially those active during the five initial centuries of christianity, according to the quinquasaecularist principle proposed by the english bishop lancelot andrewes and the lutheran dissident georg calixtus ). anglicans understand the old and new testaments as " containing all things necessary for salvation " and as being the rule and ultimate standard of faith. reason and tradition are seen as valuable means to interpret scripture ( a position first formulated in detail by richard hooker ), but there is no full mutual agreement among anglicans about exactly how scripture, reason, and tradition interact ( or ought to interact ) with each other. anglicans understand the apostles ' creed as the baptismal symbol and the nicene creed as the sufficient statement of the christian faith. anglicans believe the catholic and apostolic faith is revealed in holy scripture and the catholic creeds and interpret these in light of the christian tradition of the historic church, scholarship, reason, and experience. anglicans celebrate the traditional sacraments, with special emphasis being given to the eucharist,