classical arminianism classical arminianism is the theological system that was presented by jacobus arminius and maintained by some of the remonstrants. theologians as forlines and olson have referred to this system as " classical arminianism ", while others as picirilli and pinson prefer to term it " reformation arminianism " or " reformed arminianism ". the teachings of arminius held to sola fide and sola gratia of the reformation, but they were distinct from particular teachings of martin luther, huldrych zwingli, john calvin, and other protestant reformers. classical arminianism was originally articulated in the five articles of remonstrance. " these points ", note keith d. stanglin and thomas h. mccall, " are consistent with the views of arminius ; indeed, some come verbatim from his declaration of sentiments. " a list of beliefs of classical arminianism is given below : god ' s providence and human free will the majority arminian view accepts classical theism, which states that god is omnipresent, omnipotent, and omniscient. in that view, god ' s power, knowledge, and presence have no external limitations, that is, outside of his divine nature and character. besides, arminianism view on god ' s sovereignty is based on postulates stemming from god ' s character, especially as fully revealed in jesus christ. on the first hand, divine election must be defined in such a way that god is not in any case, and even in a secondary way, the author of evil. it would not correspond to the character of god. on the other hand, man ' s responsibility for evil must be absolutely preserved. those two postulates require a specific way by which god chooses to manifest his sovereignty when interacting with his creatures : on one hand, it requires for god to operate according to a limited mode of providence. this means that god purposely exercises his sovereignty in ways that do not illustrate the full extent of his omnipotence. on the other hand, it requires for god ' s election to be a " predestination by foreknowledge ". in that respect, god ' s foreknowledge reconciles with human free will in the following way : human free will is limited by original sin, though god ' s prevenient grace restores to humanity the ability to accept god ' s call of salvation. god ' s foreknow