later planned mid - course corrections were canceled because the apollo8 trajectory was found to be perfect. about an hour after starting his sleep shift, borman obtained permission from ground control to take a seconal sleeping pill. the pill had little effect. borman eventually fell asleep, and then awoke feeling ill. he vomited twice and had a bout of diarrhea ; this left the spacecraft full of small globules of vomit and feces, which the crew cleaned up as well as they could. borman initially did not want everyone to know about his medical problems, but lovell and anders wanted to inform mission control. the crew decided to use the data storage equipment ( dse ), which could tape voice recordings and telemetry and dump them to mission control at high speed. after recording a description of borman ' s illness they asked mission control to check the recording, stating that they " would like an evaluation of the voice comments ". the apollo 8 crew and mission control medical personnel held a conference using an unoccupied second - floor control room ( there were two identical control rooms in houston, on the second and third floors, only one of which was used during a mission ). the conference participants concluded that there was little to worry about and that borman ' s illness was either a 24 - hour flu, as borman thought, or a reaction to the sleeping pill. researchers now believe that he was suffering from space adaptation syndrome, which affects about a third of astronauts during their first day in space as their vestibular system adapts to weightlessness. space adaptation syndrome had not occurred on previous spacecraft ( mercury and gemini ), because those astronauts could not move freely in the small cabins of those spacecraft. the increased cabin space in the apollo command module afforded astronauts greater freedom of movement, contributing to symptoms of space sickness for borman and, later, astronaut rusty schweickart during apollo9. the cruise phase was a relatively uneventful part of the flight, except for the crew ' s checking that the spacecraft was in working order and that they were on course. during this time, nasa scheduled a television broadcast at 31 hours after launch. the apollo8 crew used a camera that broadcast in black - and - white only, using a vidicon tube. the camera had two lenses, a very wide - angle ( 160° ) lens, and a telephoto ( 9° ) lens. during this first broadcast, the crew gave a tour of the spacecraft and attempted to show how the