captives were rescued, but ishmael and eight of his men escaped to the land of ammon. the plan of baalis thus succeeded, for the jewish refugees, fearing lest the babylonian king should hold them responsible for the murder, never returned to their native land. in spite of the exhortations of jeremiah they fled to egypt, joined by the remnant of the jews that had survived, together with jeremiah and baruch ( jer. xliii. 6 ). the rule of gedaliah lasted, according to tradition, only two months, although gratz argues that it continued more than four years. language the few ammonite names that have been preserved also include nahash and hanun, both from the bible. the ammonites ' language is believed to be in the canaanite family, closely related to hebrew and moabite. ammonite may have incorporated certain aramaic influences, including the use of ‘ bd, instead of commoner biblical hebrew ‘ sh, for " work ". the only other notable difference with biblical hebrew is the sporadic retention of feminine singular - t ( e. g., sħt " cistern ", but lyh " high ( fem. ) ". ) inscriptions inscriptions found in the ammonite language include an inscription on a bronze bottle dating to c. 600 bc and the amman citadel inscription. religion sources for what little is known of ammonite religion are mostly the hebrew bible and material evidence. in general it appears to have been rather typical for levantine religions, with milkom, el and the moon god being the most prominent deities. economy the economy, for the most part, was based on agriculture and herding. most people lived in small villages surrounded by farms and pastures. like its sister - kingdom of moab, ammon was the source of numerous natural resources, including sandstone and limestone. it had a productive agricultural sector and occupied a vital place along the king ' s highway, the ancient trade route connecting egypt with mesopotamia, syria, and asia minor. as with the edomites and moabites, trade along this route gave them considerable revenue. circa 950 bc ammon showed rising prosperity, due to agriculture and trade, and built a series of fortresses. its capital was located in what is now the citadel of amman. see also list of rulers of ammon abel - cheramim ammon as a name used in the book of mormon ammon ( book of mormon explorer ) ammon ( book of mormon missionary ) references bibliography