framework of alhazen. alhazen showed through experiment that light travels in straight lines, and carried out various experiments with lenses, mirrors, refraction, and reflection. his analyses of reflection and refraction considered the vertical and horizontal components of light rays separately. alhazen studied the process of sight, the structure of the eye, image formation in the eye, and the visual system. ian p. howard argued in a 1996 perception article that alhazen should be credited with many discoveries and theories previously attributed to western europeans writing centuries later. for example, he described what became in the 19th century hering ' s law of equal innervation. he wrote a description of vertical horopters 600 years before aguilonius that is actually closer to the modern definition than aguilonius ' s — and his work on binocular disparity was repeated by panum in 1858. craig aaen - stockdale, while agreeing that alhazen should be credited with many advances, has expressed some caution, especially when considering alhazen in isolation from ptolemy, with whom alhazen was extremely familiar. alhazen corrected a significant error of ptolemy regarding binocular vision, but otherwise his account is very similar ; ptolemy also attempted to explain what is now called hering ' s law. in general, alhazen built on and expanded the optics of ptolemy. in a more detailed account of ibn al - haytham ' s contribution to the study of binocular vision based on lejeune and sabra, raynaud showed that the concepts of correspondence, homonymous and crossed diplopia were in place in ibn al - haytham ' s optics. but contrary to howard, he explained why ibn al - haytham did not give the circular figure of the horopter and why, by reasoning experimentally, he was in fact closer to the discovery of panum ' s fusional area than that of the vieth - muller circle. in this regard, ibn al - haytham ' s theory of binocular vision faced two main limits : the lack of recognition of the role of the retina, and obviously the lack of an experimental investigation of ocular tracts. alhazen ' s most original contribution was that, after describing how he thought the eye was anatomically constructed, he went on to consider how this anatomy would behave functionally as an optical system. his understanding of pinhole projection from his experiments appears to have influenced his consideration of image inversion in the eye, which he sought to avoid