shows the influence of plato, german mysticism, and immanuel kant as filtered through the writings of samuel taylor coleridge. margaret fuller referred to alcott as " a philosopher of the balmy times of ancient greece — a man whom the worldlings of boston hold in as much horror as the worldlings of athens held socrates. " in his later years, alcott related a story from his boyhood : during a total solar eclipse, he threw rocks at the sky until he fell and dislocated his shoulder. he reflected that the event was a prophecy that he would be " tilting at the sun and always catching the fall ". like emerson, alcott was always optimistic, idealistic, and individualistic in thinking. writer james russell lowell referred to alcott in his poem " studies for two heads " as " an angel with clipped wings ". even so, emerson noted that alcott ' s brilliant conversational ability did not translate into good writing. " when he sits down to write, " emerson wrote, " all his genius leaves him ; he gives you the shells and throws away the kernel of his thought. " his " orphic sayings ", published in the dial, became famous for their hilarity as dense, pretentious, and meaningless. in new york, for example, the knickerbocker published a parody titled " gastric sayings " in november 1840. a writer for the boston post referred to alcott ' s " orphic sayings " as " a train of fifteen railroad cars with one passenger ". modern critics often fault alcott for not being able to financially support his family. alcott himself worried about his own prospects as a young man, once writing to his mother that he was " still at my old trade — hoping. " alcott held his principles above his and his family ' s well - being. shortly before his marriage, for example, his future father - in - law colonel joseph may helped him find a job teaching at a school in boston run by the society of free enquirers, followers of robert owen, for a lucrative $ 1, 000 to $ 1, 200 annual salary. he refused it because he did not agree with their beliefs, writing, " i shall have nothing to do with them. " from the other perspective, the alcotts created an environment which produced two famous daughters in different fields in a time when women were not commonly encouraged to have independent careers. works observations on the principles and methods of infant instruction ( 1830 )