recursion " ( known now as mu - recursion ) was used by church in his 1935 paper an unsolvable problem of elementary number theory that proved the " decision problem " to be " undecidable " ( i. e., a negative result ). reprinted in the undecidable, p. 255ff. kleene refined his definition of " general recursion " and proceeded in his chapter " 12. algorithmic theories " to posit " thesis i " ( p. 274 ) ; he would later repeat this thesis ( in kleene 1952 : 300 ) and name it " church ' s thesis " ( kleene 1952 : 317 ) ( i. e., the church thesis ). kosovsky, n. k. elements of mathematical logic and its application to the theory of subrecursive algorithms, lsu publ., leningrad, 1981 a. a. markov ( 1954 ) theory of algorithms. [ translated by jacques j. schorr - kon and pst staff ] imprint moscow, academy of sciences of the ussr, 1954 [ i. e., jerusalem, israel program for scientific translations, 1961 ; available from the office of technical services, u. s. dept. of commerce, washington ] description 444 p. 28 cm. added t. p. in russian translation of works of the mathematical institute, academy of sciences of the ussr, v. 42. original title : teoriya algerifmov. [ qa248. m2943 dartmouth college library. u. s. dept. of commerce, office of technical services, number ots. ] minsky expands his "... idea of an algorithm – an effective procedure... " in chapter 5. 1 computability, effective procedures and algorithms. infinite machines. reprinted in the undecidable, pp. 289ff. post defines a simple algorithmic - like process of a man writing marks or erasing marks and going from box to box and eventually halting, as he follows a list of simple instructions. this is cited by kleene as one source of his " thesis i ", the so - called church – turing thesis. reprinted in the undecidable, p. 223ff. herein is rosser ' s famous definition of " effective method " : "... a method each step of which is precisely predetermined and which is certain to produce the answer in a finite number of steps.