to the description of the apostles as " not drunk " at pentecost in acts 2 : 15. a large geode, or " amethyst - grotto ", from near santa cruz in southern brazil was presented at a 1902 exhibition in dusseldorf, germany. the meaning of amethyst varies from time to time and culture, which is why amethyst has different meanings in feng shui and focuses on increasing wealth. in ancient china, it was also used as a powerful tool to remove negative energies and drive away the hazards of daily life. synthetic amethyst synthetic ( laboratory - grown ) amethyst is produced by a synthesis method called hydrothermal growth, which grows the crystals inside a high - pressure autoclave. synthetic amethyst is made to imitate the best quality amethyst. its chemical and physical properties are the same as those of natural amethyst, and it cannot be differentiated with absolute certainty without advanced gemmological testing ( which is often cost - prohibitive ). one test based on " brazil law twinning " ( a form of quartz twinning where right - and left - hand quartz structures are combined in a single crystal ) can be used to identify most synthetic amethyst rather easily. synthesizing twinned amethyst is possible, but this type is not available in large quantities in the market. treated amethyst is produced by gamma ray, x - ray, or electron - beam irradiation of clear quartz ( rock crystal ), which has been first doped with ferric impurities. exposure to heat partially cancels the irradiation effects and amethyst generally becomes yellow or even green. much of the citrine, cairngorm, or yellow quartz of jewelry is said to be merely " burnt amethyst ". cultural history ancient greece the greek word amethystos may be translated as " not drunken ", from greek a -, " not " +, " intoxicated ". amethyst was considered to be a strong antidote against drunkenness, which is why wine goblets were often carved from it. in his poem " l ' amethyste, ou les amours de bacchus et d ' amethyste " ( amethyst or the loves of bacchus and amethyste ), the french poet remy belleau ( 1528 – 1577 ) invented a myth in which bacchus, the god of intoxication, of wine, and grapes was pursuing a