used to shape blades and other objects from flakes. in naqada ii times, early evidence exists of contact with the near east, particularly canaan and the byblos coast. over a period of about 1, 000 years, the naqada culture developed from a few small farming communities into a powerful civilization whose leaders were in complete control of the people and resources of the nile valley. establishing a power center at nekhen ( in greek, hierakonpolis ), and later at abydos, naqada iii leaders expanded their control of egypt northwards along the nile. they also traded with nubia to the south, the oases of the western desert to the west, and the cultures of the eastern mediterranean and near east to the east, initiating a period of egypt - mesopotamia relations. the naqada culture manufactured a diverse selection of material goods, reflective of the increasing power and wealth of the elite, as well as societal personal - use items, which included combs, small statuary, painted pottery, high quality decorative stone vases, cosmetic palettes, and jewelry made of gold, lapis, and ivory. they also developed a ceramic glaze known as faience, which was used well into the roman period to decorate cups, amulets, and figurines. during the last predynastic phase, the naqada culture began using written symbols that eventually were developed into a full system of hieroglyphs for writing the ancient egyptian language. early dynastic period ( c. 3150 – 2686 bc ) the early dynastic period was approximately contemporary to the early sumerian - akkadian civilization of mesopotamia and of ancient elam. the third - centurybc egyptian priest manetho grouped the long line of kings from menes to his own time into 30 dynasties, a system still used today. he began his official history with the king named " meni " ( or menes in greek ), who was believed to have united the two kingdoms of upper and lower egypt. the transition to a unified state happened more gradually than ancient egyptian writers represented, and there is no contemporary record of menes. some scholars now believe, however, that the mythical menes may have been the king narmer, who is depicted wearing royal regalia on the ceremonial narmer palette, in a symbolic act of unification. in the early dynastic period, which began about 3000bc, the first of the dynastic kings solidified control over lower egypt by establishing