organisms use transaminases for amino acid synthesis, too. nonstandard amino acids are usually formed through modifications to standard amino acids. for example, homocysteine is formed through the transsulfuration pathway or by the demethylation of methionine via the intermediate metabolite s - adenosylmethionine, while hydroxyproline is made by a post translational modification of proline. microorganisms and plants synthesize many uncommon amino acids. for example, some microbes make 2 - aminoisobutyric acid and lanthionine, which is a sulfide - bridged derivative of alanine. both of these amino acids are found in peptidic lantibiotics such as alamethicin. however, in plants, 1 - aminocyclopropane - 1 - carboxylic acid is a small disubstituted cyclic amino acid that is an intermediate in the production of the plant hormone ethylene. primordial synthesis the formation of amino acids and peptides are assumed to precede and perhaps induce the emergence of life on earth. amino acids can form from simple precursors under various conditions. surface - based chemical metabolism of amino acids and very small compounds may have led to the build - up of amino acids, coenzymes and phosphate - based small carbon molecules. amino acids and similar building blocks could have been elaborated into proto - peptides, with peptides being considered key players in the origin of life. in the famous urey - miller experiment, the passage of an electric arc through a mixture of methane, hydrogen, and ammonia produces a large number of amino acids. since then, scientists have discovered a range of ways and components by which the potentially prebiotic formation and chemical evolution of peptides may have occurred, such as condensing agents, the design of self - replicating peptides and a number of non - enzymatic mechanisms by which amino acids could have emerged and elaborated into peptides. several hypotheses invoke the strecker synthesis whereby hydrogen cyanide, simple aldehydes, ammonia, and water produce amino acids. according to a review, amino acids, and even peptides, " turn up fairly regularly in the various experimental broths that have been allowed to be cooked from simple chemicals. this is because nucleotides are far more difficult to synthesize chemically than amino acids. " for a chronological order, it suggests that there must have been a