the previous section ' s chart. earlier versions of ascii used the up arrow instead of the caret ( 5ehex ) and the left arrow instead of the underscore ( 5fhex ). usage ascii was first used commercially during 1963 as a seven - bit teleprinter code for american telephone & telegraph ' s twx ( teletypewriter exchange ) network. twx originally used the earlier five - bit ita2, which was also used by the competing telex teleprinter system. bob bemer introduced features such as the escape sequence. his british colleague hugh mcgregor ross helped to popularize this work according to bemer, " so much so that the code that was to become ascii was first called the bemer – ross code in europe ". because of his extensive work on ascii, bemer has been called " the father of ascii ". on march 11, 1968, us president lyndon b. johnson mandated that all computers purchased by the united states federal government support ascii, stating : i have also approved recommendations of the secretary of commerce [ luther h. hodges ] regarding standards for recording the standard code for information interchange on magnetic tapes and paper tapes when they are used in computer operations. all computers and related equipment configurations brought into the federal government inventory on and after july 1, 1969, must have the capability to use the standard code for information interchange and the formats prescribed by the magnetic tape and paper tape standards when these media are used. ascii was the most common character encoding on the world wide web until december 2007, when utf - 8 encoding surpassed it ; utf - 8 is backward compatible with ascii. variants and derivations as computer technology spread throughout the world, different standards bodies and corporations developed many variations of ascii to facilitate the expression of non - english languages that used roman - based alphabets. one could class some of these variations as " ascii extensions ", although some misuse that term to represent all variants, including those that do not preserve ascii ' s character - map in the 7 - bit range. furthermore, the ascii extensions have also been mislabelled as ascii. 7 - bit codes from early in its development, ascii was intended to be just one of several national variants of an international character code standard. other international standards bodies have ratified character encodings such as iso 646 ( 1967 ) that are identical or nearly identical to asci