##ney, who was one of the nine victims of the charleston church shooting in 2015. modern interpretations in recent years, the words of the hymn have been changed in some religious publications to downplay a sense of imposed self - loathing by its singers. the second line, " that saved a wretch like me! " has been rewritten as " that saved and strengthened me ", " save a soul like me ", or " that saved and set me free ". kathleen norris in her book amazing grace : a vocabulary of faith characterises this transformation of the original words as " wretched english " making the line that replaces the original " laughably bland ". part of the reason for this change has been the altered interpretations of what wretchedness and grace means. newton ' s calvinistic view of redemption and divine grace formed his perspective that he considered himself a sinner so vile that he was unable to change his life or be redeemed without god ' s help. yet his lyrical subtlety, in steve turner ' s opinion, leaves the hymn ' s meaning open to a variety of christian and non - christian interpretations. " wretch " also represents a period in newton ' s life when he saw himself outcast and miserable, as he was when he was enslaved in sierra leone ; his own arrogance was matched by how far he had fallen in his life. due to its immense popularity and iconic nature, the meaning behind the words of " amazing grace " has become as individual as the singer or listener. bruce hindmarsh suggests that the secular popularity of " amazing grace " is due to the absence of any mention of god in the lyrics until the fourth verse ( by excell ' s version, the fourth verse begins " when we ' ve been there ten thousand years " ), and that the song represents the ability of humanity to transform itself instead of a transformation taking place at the hands of god. " grace ", however, had a clearer meaning to john newton, as he used the word to represent god or the power of god. the transformative power of the song was investigated by journalist bill moyers in a documentary released in 1990. moyers was inspired to focus on the song ' s power after watching a performance at lincoln center, where the audience consisted of christians and non - christians, and he noticed that it had an equal impact on everybody in attendance, unifying them. james basker also acknowledged this force when he explained why he chose " amazing grace " to represent a collection of anti - slavery