during french conquest of algeria. grand post office ( 1910, by voinot and tondoire ) : construction of the neo - moorish type which is in full centre town of algiers. the jardin d ' essai ( garden of test ; el - hamma ) : situated in the east of algiers, it extends over and contains exotic plants and gardens. it was created in 1832 by a. hardy. villa abd - el - hair, with the top of the garden of test, one of the old residences of the dey, where until 1962, were placed the artists prizes winner of price abd - el - hair, and in particular maurice boitel and andre hamburg. citadel. riadh el - feth ( shopping centre and art gallery ). ketchaoua mosque ( this mosque became the saint - philippe cathedral during colonization before becoming again a mosque ). national library, is in the district of el hamma and was built in the 1990s. djamaa el kebir at the rue de la marine. it is the oldest mosque of algiers and was built during the reign of the almoravid sultan yusuf ibn tashfin. le bastion 23 – palais des rais, built in 1576 by dey ramdhan pacha and located in the lower casbah in the bab el oued neighborhood. demographics as of 2012, algiers has a population of about 3, 335, 418. the ethnic distribution is 53 % from an arabic - speaking background, 44 % from a berber - speaking background and 3 % foreign - born. economy algiers is an important economic, commercial and financial center, with a stock exchange capitalized at 60 million euros. the city has the highest cost of living of any city in north africa, as well as the 50th highest worldwide, as of march 2007, having gained one position compared to the previous year. mohamed ben ali el abbar, president of the council of administration of the emirate group emaar, presented five " megaprojects " to algerian president abdelaziz bouteflika, during a ceremony which took place saturday, july 15, in the people ' s palace of algiers. these projects will transform the city of algiers and its surroundings by equipping them with a retail area and restoration and leisure facilities. the first project will concentrate on the reorganization and the development of the infrastructures of the railway station " aga " located in the downtown area. the ultramodern station intended to accommodate more than 80. 000 passengers per day, will