people groups deemed to be closely related : among others shem was the father of the jews, assyrians, and arameans, while ham was the father of the egyptians and cushites. this genealogy does not reflect the actual origins of these peoples ' languages : for example, the canaanites are descendants of ham according to the table, even though hebrew is now classified as a canaanite language, while the elamites are ascribed to shem despite their language being totally unrelated to hebrew. the term semitic for the semitic languages had already been coined in 1781 by august ludwig von schlozer, following an earlier suggestion by gottfried wilhelm leibniz in 1710. hamitic was first used by ernest renan in 1855 to refer to languages that appeared similar to the semitic languages, but were not themselves provably a part of the family. the belief in a connection between africans and the biblical ham, which had existed at least as far back as isidore of seville in the 6th century ad, led scholars in the early 19th century to speak vaguely of " hamian " or " hamitish " languages. the term hamito - semitic has largely fallen out of favor among linguists writing in english, but is still frequently used in the scholarship of various other languages, such as german. several issues with the label hamito - semitic have led many scholars to abandon the term and criticize its continued use. one common objection is that the hamitic component inaccurately suggests that a monophyletic " hamitic " branch exists alongside semitic. in addition, joseph greenberg has argued that hamitic possesses racial connotations, and that " hamito - semitic " overstates the centrality of the semitic languages within the family. by contrast, victor porkhomovsky suggests that the label is simply an inherited convention, and doesn ' t imply a duality of semitic and " hamitic " any more than indo - european implies a duality of indic and " european ". because of its use by several important scholars and in the titles of significant works of scholarship, the total replacement of hamito - semitic is difficult. while greenberg ultimately popularized the name " afroasiatic " in 1960, it appears to have been coined originally by maurice delafosse, as french, in 1914. the name refers to the fact that it is the only major language family with large populations in both africa and asia. due to concerns that " afroasiatic " could imply the inclusion of all languages spoken across africa and asia, the