seventh doctor faces a threat from an alternative world in battlefield, where magic is real and the alternative version of the doctor is hinted to be that reality ' s merlin. fallout shows a 1950s retro - future world that suffers a global nuclear war on the amazon streaming service. fatherland is a tv movie set in a 1960 alternative world where us president joseph kennedy and adolf hitler have agreed to meet to discuss an end to their country ' s cold war 15 years after the axis victory in world war ii. however, an american reporter has discovered proof of the long denied final solution threatens the meeting. the anime fena : pirate princess featured an alternate 18th century. for all mankind depicts an alternate timeline in which the soviet crewed lunar program successfully lands on the moon before the us apollo program, resulting in a continued and intensified space race. it also includes many historic deviants - including michael jordan drafted by portland trail blazers, instead of chicago bulls. in the tv show fringe the father of one of the main characters crosses into another reality to steal that world ' s version of his son after his son dies. the second world has a slightly different history, with a few different states in the united states, such as only one carolina and upper michigan as a state. in addition, the 9 / 11 attack didn ' t take down the twin towers but the white house. also, several major dc comics events are different, such as superman not supergirl dying during crisis on infinite earths. the incursion to steal the son has many negative effects on that world, and while the realities start out as antagonist, they eventually work together to repair the damage. the tv show the man in the high castle is an adaptation of the novel with the same name that ran for four seasons showing a world where the axis powers won world war ii. motherland : fort salem explores a female - dominated world in which witchcraft is real. its world diverged from our timeline when the salem witch trials are resolved by an agreement between witches and ungifted humans. noughts + crosses is a british tv show set on a world where a powerful west african empire colonizes europe 700 years before the start of the series. parallels was a planned tv show whose pilot was later released as a netflix movie. the plot concerns a building which can shift realities every 36 hours and those who use the building to travel to other realities. the plot against america is an hbo miniseries where charles lindbergh wins the 1940 us presidential election as an anti - war candidate who moves the country toward fascism. the