idea of using an ibm selectric typing element for the apl character set. many apl symbols, even with the apl characters on the selectric typing element, still had to be typed in by over - striking two extant element characters. an example is the grade up character, which had to be made from a delta ( shift - h ) and a sheffer stroke ( shift - m ). this was necessary because the apl character set was much larger than the 88 characters allowed on the typing element, even when letters were restricted to upper - case ( capitals ). commercial availability the first apl interactive login and creation of an apl workspace was in 1966 by larry breed using an ibm 1050 terminal at the ibm mohansic labs near thomas j. watson research center, the home of apl, in yorktown heights, new york. ibm was chiefly responsible for introducing apl to the marketplace. the first publicly available version of apl was released in 1968 for the ibm 1130. ibm provided apl \ 1130 for free but without liability or support. it would run in as little as 8k 16 - bit words of memory, and used a dedicated 1 megabyte hard disk. apl gained its foothold on mainframe timesharing systems from the late 1960s through the early 1980s, in part because it would support multiple users on lower - specification systems that had no dynamic address translation hardware. additional improvements in performance for selected ibm system / 370 mainframe systems included the apl assist microcode in which some support for apl execution was included in the processor ' s firmware, as distinct from being implemented entirely by higher - level software. somewhat later, as suitably performing hardware was finally growing available in the mid - to late - 1980s, many users migrated their applications to the personal computer environment. early ibm apl interpreters for ibm 360 and ibm 370 hardware implemented their own multi - user management instead of relying on the host services, thus they were their own timesharing systems. first introduced for use at ibm in 1966, the apl \ 360 system was a multi - user interpreter. the ability to programmatically communicate with the operating system for information and setting interpreter system variables was done through special privileged " i - beam " functions, using both monadic and dyadic operations. in 1973, ibm released apl. sv, which was a continuation of the same product, but which offered shared variables as a means to access facilities outside of the apl system, such as operating system files