and division, in the mind by manipulating an imagined abacus. it is a high - level cognitive skill that runs calculations with an effective algorithm. people doing long - term amc training show higher numerical memory capacity and experience more effectively connected neural pathways. they are able to retrieve memory to deal with complex processes. amc involves both visuospatial and visuomotor processing that generate the visual abacus and move the imaginary beads. since it only requires that the final position of beads be remembered, it takes less memory and less computation time. renaissance abacuses binary abacus the binary abacus is used to explain how computers manipulate numbers. the abacus shows how numbers, letters, and signs can be stored in a binary system on a computer, or via ascii. the device consists of a series of beads on parallel wires arranged in three separate rows. the beads represent a switch on the computer in either an " on " or " off " position. visually impaired users an adapted abacus, invented by tim cranmer, and called a cranmer abacus is commonly used by visually impaired users. a piece of soft fabric or rubber is placed behind the beads, keeping them in place while the users manipulate them. the device is then used to perform the mathematical functions of multiplication, division, addition, subtraction, square root, and cube root. although blind students have benefited from talking calculators, the abacus is often taught to these students in early grades. blind students can also complete mathematical assignments using a braille - writer and nemeth code ( a type of braille code for mathematics ) but large multiplication and long division problems are tedious. the abacus gives these students a tool to compute mathematical problems that equals the speed and mathematical knowledge required by their sighted peers using pencil and paper. many blind people find this number machine a useful tool throughout life. slideshow of various abacuses see also chinese zhusuan chisanbop logical abacus mental abacus napier ' s bones sand table slide rule soroban suanpan notes footnotes references reading external links tutorials min multimedia history curiosities abacus in various number systems at cut - the - knot java applet of chinese, japanese and russian abaci an atomic - scale abacus examples of abaci aztex abacus indian abacus mathematical tools chinese mathematics egyptian mathematics greek mathematics indian mathematics japanese mathematics korean mathematics roman mathematics