, it needed to be modified so as to take account of resonances within the medium. conical refraction the analytical complexity of fresnel ' s derivation of the ray - velocity surface was an implicit challenge to find a shorter path to the result. this was answered by maccullagh in 1830, and by william rowan hamilton in 1832. hamilton went further, establishing two properties of the surface that fresnel, in the short time given to him, had overlooked : ( i ) at each of the four points where the inner and outer sheets of the surface make contact, the surface has a tangent cone ( tangential to both sheets ), hence a cone of normals, indicating that a cone of wave - normal directions corresponds to a single ray - velocity vector ; and ( ii ) around each of these points, the outer sheet has a circle of contact with a tangent plane, indicating that a cone of ray directions corresponds to a single wave - normal velocity vector. as hamilton noted, these properties respectively imply that ( i ) a narrow beam propagating inside the crystal in the direction of the single ray velocity will, on exiting the crystal through a flat surface, break into a hollow cone ( external conical refraction ), and ( ii ) a narrow beam striking a flat surface of the crystal in the appropriate direction ( corresponding to that of the single internal wave - normal velocity ) will, on entering the crystal, break into a hollow cone ( internal conical refraction ). thus a new pair of phenomena, qualitatively different from anything previously observed or suspected, had been predicted by mathematics as consequences of fresnel ' s theory. the prompt experimental confirmation of those predictions by humphrey lloyd brought hamilton a prize that had never come to fresnel : immediate fame. legacy within a century of fresnel ' s initial stepped - lens proposal, more than 10, 000 lights with fresnel lenses were protecting lives and property around the world. concerning the other benefits, the science historian theresa h. levitt has remarked : in the history of physical optics, fresnel ' s successful revival of the wave theory nominates him as the pivotal figure between newton, who held that light consisted of corpuscles, and james clerk maxwell, who established that light waves are electromagnetic. whereas albert einstein described maxwell ' s work as " the most profound and the most fruitful that physics has experienced since the time of newton, " commentators of the era between fresnel and maxwell made similarly strong statements about fresnel : maccullagh,