##rdial tamponade and one was from an aortoduodenal fistula. the same review found vascular injuries were rare, bleeding and pseudoaneurysm were most prevalent. a 2011 systematic review ( without restriction in time or language ), aiming to summarize all reported case of cardiac tamponade after acupuncture, found 26 cases resulting in 14 deaths, with little doubt about cause in most fatal instances. the same review concluded that cardiac tamponade was a serious, usually fatal, though theoretically avoidable complication following acupuncture, and urged training to minimize risk. a 2012 review found that a number of adverse events were reported after acupuncture in the uk ' s national health service ( nhs ), 95 % of which were not severe, though miscategorization and under - reporting may alter the total figures. from january 2009 to december 2011, 468 safety incidents were recognized within the nhs organizations. the adverse events recorded included retained needles ( 31 % ), dizziness ( 30 % ), loss of consciousness / unresponsive ( 19 % ), falls ( 4 % ), bruising or soreness at needle site ( 2 % ), pneumothorax ( 1 % ) and other adverse side effects ( 12 % ). acupuncture practitioners should know, and be prepared to be responsible for, any substantial harm from treatments. some acupuncture proponents argue that the long history of acupuncture suggests it is safe. however, there is an increasing literature on adverse events ( e. g. spinal - cord injury ). acupuncture seems to be safe in people getting anticoagulants, assuming needles are used at the correct location and depth, but studies are required to verify these findings. chinese, korean, and japanese - language a 2010 systematic review of the chinese - language literature found numerous acupuncture - related adverse events, including pneumothorax, fainting, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and infection as the most frequent, and cardiovascular injuries, subarachnoid hemorrhage, pneumothorax, and recurrent cerebral hemorrhage as the most serious, most of which were due to improper technique. between 1980 and 2009, the chinese - language literature reported 479 adverse events. prospective surveys show that mild, transient acupuncture - associated adverse events ranged from 6. 71 % to 15 %. in a study with 190, 92