he greatly favored the trojans, apollo was bound to follow the orders of zeus and served his father loyally during the war. nurturer of the young apollo kourotrophos is the god who nurtures and protects children and the young, especially boys. he oversees their education and their passage into adulthood. education is said to have originated from apollo and the muses. many myths have him train his children. it was a custom for boys to cut and dedicate their long hair to apollo after reaching adulthood. chiron, the abandoned centaur, was fostered by apollo, who instructed him in medicine, prophecy, archery and more. chiron would later become a great teacher himself. asclepius in his childhood gained much knowledge pertaining to medicinal arts from his father. however, he was later entrusted to chiron for further education. anius, apollo ' s son by rhoeo, was abandoned by his mother soon after his birth. apollo brought him up and educated him in mantic arts. anius later became the priest of apollo and the king of delos. iamus was the son of apollo and evadne. when evadne went into labour, apollo sent the moirai to assist his lover. after the child was born, apollo sent snakes to feed the child some honey. when iamus reached the age of education, apollo took him to olympia and taught him many arts, including the ability to understand and explain the languages of birds. idmon was educated by apollo to be a seer. even though he foresaw his death that would happen in his journey with the argonauts, he embraced his destiny and died a brave death. to commemorate his son ' s bravery, apollo commanded boeotians to build a town around the tomb of the hero, and to honor him. apollo adopted carnus, the abandoned son of zeus and europa. he reared the child with the help of his mother leto and educated him to be a seer. when his son melaneus reached the age of marriage, apollo asked the princess stratonice to be his son ' s bride and carried her away from her home when she agreed. apollo saved a shepherd boy ( name unknown ) from death in a large deep cave, by means of vultures. to thank him, the shepherd built apollo a temple under the name vulturius. god of music immediately after his birth, apollo demanded a lyre and invented the paean, thus becoming the god of music. as the