to their masters post - war despite earlier promises of freedom. as a patriot victory became increasingly likely, the treatment of black loyalists became a point of contention ; after the surrender of yorktown in 1781, washington insisted all escapees be returned but cornwallis refused. in 1782 and 1783, around 8, 000 to 10, 000 freed blacks were evacuated by the british from charleston, savannah, and new york ; some moved onto london, while 3, 000 to 4, 000 settled in nova scotia, where they founded settlements such as birchtown. white loyalists transported 15, 000 enslaved blacks to jamaica and the bahamas. the free black loyalists who migrated to the british west indies included regular soldiers from dunmore ' s ethiopian regiment, and those from charleston who helped garrison the leeward islands. native americans most native americans east of the mississippi river were affected by the war, and many tribes were divided over how to respond to the conflict. a few tribes were friendly with the colonists, but most natives opposed the union of the colonies as a potential threat to their territory. approximately 13, 000 natives fought on the british side, with the largest group coming from the iroquois tribes who deployed around 1, 500 men. early in july 1776, cherokee allies of britain attacked the short - lived washington district of north carolina. their defeat splintered both cherokee settlements and people, and was directly responsible for the rise of the chickamauga cherokee, who perpetuated the cherokee – american wars against american settlers for decades after hostilities with britain ended. creek and seminole allies of britain fought against americans in georgia and south carolina. in 1778, a force of 800 creeks destroyed american settlements along the broad river in georgia. creek warriors also joined thomas brown ' s raids into south carolina and assisted britain during the siege of savannah. many native americans were involved in the fight between britain and spain on the gulf coast and along the british side of the mississippi river. thousands of creeks, chickasaws, and choctaws fought in major battles such as the battle of fort charlotte, the battle of mobile, and the siege of pensacola. the iroquois confederacy was shattered as a result of the american revolutionary war, whatever side they took ; the seneca, onondaga, and cayuga tribes sided with the british ; members of the mohawks fought on both sides ; and many tuscarora and oneida sided with the americans. to retaliate against raids on american settlement by loyalists and their indian allies, the continental army dispatched the sullivan expedition on a punitive expedition throughout new york to debil