that election is individual and based on god ' s foreknowledge of faith. according to the corporate election view, god never chose individuals to elect to salvation, but rather he chose to elect the believing church to salvation. jesus was the only human ever elected and individuals must be " in christ " through faith to be part of the elect. corporate election draws support from a similar concept of corporate election found in the old testament and jewish law. identity stemmed from membership in a group more than individuality. arminianism and other views divergence with pelagianism pelagianism is a doctrine denying original sin and total depravity. no system of arminianism founded on arminius or wesley denies original sin or total depravity ; both arminius and wesley strongly affirmed that man ' s basic condition is one in which he cannot be righteous, understand god, or seek god. arminius referred to pelagianism as " the grand falsehood " and stated that he " must confess that i detest, from my heart, the consequences [ of that theology ]. " david pawson, a british pastor, decries this association as " libelous " when attributed to arminius ' or wesley ' s doctrine. indeed, most arminians reject all accusations of pelagianism. divergence with semi - pelagianism some schools of thought, notably semi - pelagianism, which teaches that the first step of salvation is by human will, are confused as being arminian in nature. but classical arminianism and wesleyan arminianism hold that the first step of salvation is through the prevenient grace of god, though " the subsequent grace entails a cooperative relationship. " divergence with calvinism the two systems of calvinism and arminianism share both history and many doctrines, and the history of christian theology. however, because of their differences over the doctrines of divine predestination and election, many people view these schools of thought as opposed to each other. the distinction is whether god desires to save all yet allows individuals to resist the grace offered ( in the arminian doctrine ) or if god desires to save only some and grace is irresistible to those chosen ( in the calvinist doctrine ). many consider the theological differences to be crucial differences in doctrine, while others find them to be relatively minor. similarities total depravity – arminians agree with calvinists over the doctrine of total depravity. the differences come in the understanding