to the country ' s gdp, but remained largely stagnant with industrial output increasing only by 1. 7 percent per year. in 2005, armenia ' s industrial output ( including electricity ) made up about 30 percent of gdp. services sector in the 2000s, along with the construction sector, the services sector was the driving force behind armenia ' s recent high economic growth rate. between 2017 and 2019, armenia ' s economy increased fast, with annual rate of gdp growth averaging 6. 8 percent. following the political realignment of 2018, prudent macroeconomic policy helped develop a track record of macroeconomic stability and an enhanced business environment. in armenia, the service sector in 2020 reduced volumes by 14. 7 %, against 15 % growth a year earlier, amounting to 1. 7 trillion drams ( $ 3. 5 billion ). according to the statistical committee, a negative trend was recorded in all service segments except finance, as well as information and communication. retail trade in 2010, retail trade turnover was largely unaltered compared to 2009. the existing monopolies throughout the retail sector have made the sector non - responsive to the crisis and resulted in near zero growth. the aftermath of the crisis has started to shift the structure in the retail sector in favor of food products. nowadays ( 2019 ), armenia has improved standards of living and growing income, which brought to the improvement of retail sector in armenia. retail sector has the highest employment level. while the sector improves, currently the major sector is still in yerevan, and not in the other cities of armenia. the development that happened in this sector was the opening of dalma garden mall, and later yerevan mall, rio mall and rossia mall, which dramatically increased the quality of retail in yerevan. currently there is a new development, as in gyumri there is a new mall opened called shirak mall. another reason for the development of the retail is the development that happened in the banking industry. today people can easily get financial assistance from the banks right to their credit cards, without visiting the bank. information and communication technologies as of february 2019 nearly 23 thousand employees were counted in ict sector. with 404 thousand amd they enjoyed highest pay rate among surveyed sectors of economy. average salaries in pure it sector ( excluding communications sub - sector ) stood at 582 thousand amd. financial services in january 2019 there were 20. 5 thousand employees registered in the financial sector. according to moody ' s, robust economic growth will benefit banks with gdp growth remaining robust at around 4. 5 %