separates into different crystal phases ( carbide and ferrite ), precipitation hardening alloys form different phases within the same crystal. these intermetallic alloys appear homogeneous in crystal structure, but tend to behave heterogeneously, becoming hard and somewhat brittle. in 1906, precipitation hardening alloys were discovered by alfred wilm. precipitation hardening alloys, such as certain alloys of aluminium, titanium, and copper, are heat - treatable alloys that soften when quenched ( cooled quickly ), and then harden over time. wilm had been searching for a way to harden aluminium alloys for use in machine - gun cartridge cases. knowing that aluminium - copper alloys were heat - treatable to some degree, wilm tried quenching a ternary alloy of aluminium, copper, and the addition of magnesium, but was initially disappointed with the results. however, when wilm retested it the next day he discovered that the alloy increased in hardness when left to age at room temperature, and far exceeded his expectations. although an explanation for the phenomenon was not provided until 1919, duralumin was one of the first " age hardening " alloys used, becoming the primary building material for the first zeppelins, and was soon followed by many others. because they often exhibit a combination of high strength and low weight, these alloys became widely used in many forms of industry, including the construction of modern aircraft. mechanisms when a molten metal is mixed with another substance, there are two mechanisms that can cause an alloy to form, called atom exchange and the interstitial mechanism. the relative size of each element in the mix plays a primary role in determining which mechanism will occur. when the atoms are relatively similar in size, the atom exchange method usually happens, where some of the atoms composing the metallic crystals are substituted with atoms of the other constituent. this is called a substitutional alloy. examples of substitutional alloys include bronze and brass, in which some of the copper atoms are substituted with either tin or zinc atoms respectively. in the case of the interstitial mechanism, one atom is usually much smaller than the other and can not successfully substitute for the other type of atom in the crystals of the base metal. instead, the smaller atoms become trapped in the interstitial sites between the atoms of the crystal matrix. this is referred to as an interstitial alloy. steel is an example of an interstitial alloy, because the very small carbon atoms fit into interstices of the iron matrix. stainless steel is an example of