##h road, cross road and south road. suburban expansion has to some extent outgrown light ' s original plan. numerous former outlying villages and " country towns ", as well as the satellite city of elizabeth, have been enveloped by its suburban sprawl. expanding developments in the adelaide hills region led to the construction of the south eastern freeway to cope with growth, which has subsequently led to new developments and further improvements to that transport corridor. similarly, the booming development in adelaide ' s south led to the construction of the southern expressway. new roads are not the only transport infrastructure developed to cope with the urban growth. the o - bahn busway is an example of a unique solution to tea tree gully ' s transport woes in the 1980s. the development of the nearby suburb of golden grove in the late 1980s is an example of well - thought - out urban planning. in the 1960s, a metropolitan adelaide transport study plan was proposed to cater for the future growth of the city. the plan involved the construction of freeways, expressways and the upgrade of certain aspects of the public transport system. the then premier steele hall approved many parts of the plan and the government went as far as purchasing land for the project. the later labor government elected under don dunstan shelved the plan, but allowed the purchased land to remain vacant, should the future need for freeways arise. in 1980, the liberal party won government and premier david tonkin committed his government to selling off the land acquired for the mats plan, ensuring that even when needs changed, the construction of most mats - proposed freeways would be impractical. some parts of this land have been used for transport, ( e. g. the o - bahn busway and southern expressway ), while most has been progressively subdivided for residential use. in 2008, the sa government announced plans for a network of transport - oriented developments across the adelaide metropolitan area and purchased a 10 hectare industrial site at bowden for $ 52. 5 million as the first of these developments. housing historically, adelaide ' s suburban residential areas have been characterised by single - storey detached houses built on blocks. a relative lack of suitable, locally - available timber for construction purposes led to the early development of a brick - making industry, as well as the use of stone, for houses and other buildings. by 1891, 68 % of houses were built of stone, 15 % of timber, and 10 % of brick, with brick also being widely used in stone houses for quoins, door and window surrounds, and chimneys and