that he chose to die to avenge him. the tragedian sophocles also wrote the lovers of achilles, a play with achilles as the main character. only a few fragments survive. towards the end of the 5th century bc, a more negative view of achilles emerges in greek drama ; euripides refers to achilles in a bitter or ironic tone in hecuba, electra, and iphigenia in aulis. in greek philosophy zeno the philosopher zeno of elea centred one of his paradoxes on an imaginary footrace between " swift - footed " achilles and a tortoise, by which he attempted to show that achilles could not catch up to a tortoise with a head start, and therefore that motion and change were impossible. as a student of the monist parmenides and a member of the eleatic school, zeno believed time and motion to be illusions. plato in hippias minor, a socratic dialogue attributed to plato, an arrogant man named hippias argues with socrates. the two get into a discussion about lying. they decide that a person who is intentionally false must be " better " than a person who is unintentionally false, on the basis that someone who lies intentionally must understand the subject about which they are lying. socrates uses various analogies, discussing athletics and the sciences to prove his point. the two also reference homer extensively. socrates and hippias agree that odysseus, who concocted a number of lies throughout the odyssey and other stories in the trojan war cycle, was false intentionally. achilles, like odysseus, told numerous falsehoods. hippias believes that achilles was a generally honest man, while socrates believes that achilles lied for his own benefit. the two argue over whether it is better to lie on purpose or by accident. socrates eventually abandons homeric arguments and makes sports analogies to drive home the point : someone who does wrong on purpose is a better person than someone who does wrong unintentionally. in roman and medieval literature the romans, who traditionally traced their lineage to troy, took a highly negative view of achilles. virgil refers to achilles as a savage and a merciless butcher of men, while horace portrays achilles ruthlessly slaying women and children. other writers, such as catullus, propertius, and ovid, represent a second strand of disparagement, with an emphasis on achilles ' erotic career. this strand continues in latin accounts of the trojan