sorbonne in paris in 1936 as professor of economic history. bloch ' s interests were highly interdisciplinary, influenced by the geography of paul vidal de la blache ( 1845 – 1918 ) and the sociology of emile durkheim ( 1858 – 1917 ). his own ideas, especially those expressed in his masterworks, french rural history ( les caracteres originaux de l ' histoire rurale francaise, 1931 ) and feudal society, were incorporated by the second - generation annalistes, led by fernand braudel. precepts georges duby, a leader of the school, wrote that the history he taught : relegated the sensational to the sidelines and was reluctant to give a simple accounting of events, but strove on the contrary to pose and solve problems and, neglecting surface disturbances, to observe the long and medium - term evolution of economy, society and civilisation. the annalistes, especially lucien febvre, advocated a histoire totale, or histoire tout court, a complete study of a historic problem. postwar bloch was shot by the gestapo during the german occupation of france in world war ii for his active membership of the french resistance, and febvre carried on the annales approach in the 1940s and 1950s. it was during this time that he mentored braudel, who would become one of the best - known exponents of this school. braudel ' s work came to define a " second " era of annales historiography and was very influential throughout the 1960s and 1970s, especially for his work on the mediterranean region in the era of philip ii of spain. braudel developed the idea, often associated with annalistes, of different modes of historical time : l ' histoire quasi immobile ( the quasi motionless history ) of historical geography, the history of social, political and economic structures ( la longue duree ), and the history of men and events, in the context of their structures. while authors such as emmanuel le roy ladurie, marc ferro and jacques le goff continue to carry the annales banner, today the annales approach has been less distinctive as more and more historians do work in cultural history, political history and economic history. mentalites bloch ' s les rois thaumaturges ( 1924 ) looked at the long - standing folk belief that the king could cure scrofula by his thaumaturgic touch. the kings of france and england indeed regularly practiced the ritual. bloch was not concerned with the effectiveness of