led an army into greece. alaric rebelled again. historian roger collins points out that while the rivalries created by the two halves of the empire vying for power worked to alaric ' s advantage and that of his people, simply being called to authority by the gothic people did not solve the practicalities of their needs for survival. he needed roman authority in order to be supplied by roman cities. alaric took his gothic army on what stilicho ' s propagandist claudian described as a " pillaging campaign " that began first in the east. historian thomas burns ' s interpretation is that alaric and his men were recruited by rufinus ' s eastern regime in constantinople, and sent to thessaly to stave off stilicho ' s threat. no battle took place. alaric ' s forces made their way down to athens and along the coast, where he sought to force a new peace upon the romans. in 396, he marched through thermopylae and sacked athens, where archaeological evidence shows widespread damage to the city. stilicho ' s propagandist claudian accuses his troops of plundering for the next year or so as far south as the mountainous peloponnese peninsula, and reports that only stilicho ' s surprise attack with his western field army ( having sailed from italy ) stemmed the plundering as he pushed alaric ' s forces north into epirus. zosimus adds that stilicho ' s troops destroyed and pillaged too, and let alaric ' s men escape with their plunder. stilicho was forced to send some of his eastern forces home. they went to constantinople under the command of one gainas, a goth with a large gothic following. on arrival, gainas murdered rufinus, and was appointed magister militum for thrace by eutropius, the new supreme minister and the only eunuch consul of rome, who, zosimus claims, controlled arcadius " as if he were a sheep ". a poem by synesius advises arcadius to display manliness and remove a " skin - clad savage " ( probably referring to alaric ) from the councils of power and his barbarians from the roman army. we do not know if arcadius ever became aware of this advice, but it had no recorded effect. stilicho obtained a few more troops from the german frontier and continued to campaign indecisively against the eastern empire ; again he was opposed