, said he had never considered. he was asked to lend his support by writing a letter, with szilard, to president roosevelt, recommending the us pay attention and engage in its own nuclear weapons research. the letter is believed to be " arguably the key stimulus for the u. s. adoption of serious investigations into nuclear weapons on the eve of the u. s. entry into world war ii ". in addition to the letter, einstein used his connections with the belgian royal family and the belgian queen mother to get access with a personal envoy to the white house ' s oval office. some say that as a result of einstein ' s letter and his meetings with roosevelt, the us entered the " race " to develop the bomb, drawing on its " immense material, financial, and scientific resources " to initiate the manhattan project. for einstein, " war was a disease... [ and ] he called for resistance to war. " by signing the letter to roosevelt, some argue he went against his pacifist principles. in 1954, a year before his death, einstein said to his old friend, linus pauling, " i made one great mistake in my life — when i signed the letter to president roosevelt recommending that atom bombs be made ; but there was some justification — the danger that the germans would make them... " in 1955, einstein and ten other intellectuals and scientists, including british philosopher bertrand russell, signed a manifesto highlighting the danger of nuclear weapons. in 1960 einstein was included posthumously as a charter member of the world academy of art and science ( waas ), an organization founded by distinguished scientists and intellectuals who committed themselves to the responsible and ethical advances of science, particularly in light of the development of nuclear weapons. us citizenship einstein became an american citizen in 1940. not long after settling into his career at the institute for advanced study in princeton, new jersey, he expressed his appreciation of the meritocracy in american culture compared to europe. he recognized the " right of individuals to say and think what they pleased " without social barriers. as a result, individuals were encouraged, he said, to be more creative, a trait he valued from his early education. einstein joined the national association for the advancement of colored people ( naacp ) in princeton, where he campaigned for the civil rights of african americans. he considered racism america ' s " worst disease ", seeing it as " handed down from one generation to the next ". as part of his involvement, he corresponded with civil rights activist w. e. b