was formerly spoken on the canary islands and went extinct in the 17th century ce. the first longer written examples of modern berber varieties only date from the 16th or 17th centuries ce. chadic chadic languages number between 150 and 190, making chadic the largest family in afroasiatic. the chadic languages are typically divided into three major branches, east chadic, central chadic, and west chadic. most chadic languages are located in the chad basin, with the exception of hausa. hausa is the largest chadic language by native speakers, and is spoken by a large number of people as a lingua franca in northern nigeria. it may have as many as 80 to 100 million first and second language speakers. eight other chadic languages have around 100, 000 speakers ; other chadic languages often have few speakers and may be endangered of going extinct. only about 40 chadic languages have been fully described by linguists. cushitic there are about 30 cushitic languages, more if omotic is included, spoken around the horn of africa and in sudan and tanzania. the cushitic family is traditionally split into four branches : the single language of beja ( c. 3 million speakers ), the agaw languages, eastern cushitic, and southern cushitic. only one cushitic language, oromo, has more than 25 million speakers ; other languages with more than a million speakers include somali, saho - afar, hadiyya, and sidaama. many cushitic languages have relatively few speakers. cushitic does not appear to be related to the written ancient languages known from its area, meroitic or old nubian. the oldest text in a cushitic language probably dates from around 1770 ; written orthographies were only developed for a select number of cushitic languages in early 20th century. egyptian the egyptian branch consists of a single language, ancient egyptian, which was historically spoken in the lower nile valley. egyptian is first attested in writing around 3000 bce and finally went extinct around 1300 ce, making it the language with the longest written history in the world. egyptian is usually divided into two major periods, earlier egyptian ( c. 3000 – 1300 bce ), which is further subdivided into old egyptian and middle egyptian, and later egyptian ( 1300 bce - 1300 ce ), which is further subdivided into late egyptian, demotic, and coptic. coptic is the only stage written alphabetically to show vowels, whereas egyptian was previously written in egyptian hieroglyphs,