aspirin prior to surgery. the analysis found that the risk is dependent on the type of surgery being performed and the patient indication for aspirin use. on 9 july 2015, the us food and drug administration ( fda ) toughened warnings of increased heart attack and stroke risk associated with nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( nsaid ). aspirin is an nsaid but is not affected by the new warnings. overdose aspirin overdose can be acute or chronic. in acute poisoning, a single large dose is taken ; in chronic poisoning, higher than normal doses are taken over a period of time. acute overdose has a mortality rate of 2 %. chronic overdose is more commonly lethal, with a mortality rate of 25 % ; chronic overdose may be especially severe in children. toxicity is managed with a number of potential treatments, including activated charcoal, intravenous dextrose and normal saline, sodium bicarbonate, and dialysis. the diagnosis of poisoning usually involves measurement of plasma salicylate, the active metabolite of aspirin, by automated spectrophotometric methods. plasma salicylate levels in general range from 30 to 100mg / l after usual therapeutic doses, 50 – 300mg / l in people taking high doses and 700 – 1400mg / l following acute overdose. salicylate is also produced as a result of exposure to bismuth subsalicylate, methyl salicylate, and sodium salicylate. interactions aspirin is known to interact with other drugs. for example, acetazolamide and ammonium chloride are known to enhance the intoxicating effect of salicylates, and alcohol also increases the gastrointestinal bleeding associated with these types of drugs. aspirin is known to displace a number of drugs from protein - binding sites in the blood, including the antidiabetic drugs tolbutamide and chlorpropamide, warfarin, methotrexate, phenytoin, probenecid, valproic acid ( as well as interfering with beta oxidation, an important part of valproate metabolism ), and other nsaids. corticosteroids may also reduce the concentration of aspirin. other nsaids, such as ibuprofen and naproxen, may reduce the antiplatelet effect of aspirin. although limited evidence suggests this may not result in a reduced cardioprotective effect of aspirin.