required for a particular office under the crown. by the naturalisation act 1870, it was made possible for british subjects to renounce their nationality and allegiance, and the ways in which that nationality is lost were defined. so british subjects voluntarily naturalized in a foreign state are deemed aliens from the time of such naturalization, unless, in the case of persons naturalized before the passing of the act, they had declared their desire to remain british subjects within two years from the passing of the act. persons who, from having been born within british territory, are british subjects, but who, at birth, came under the law of any foreign state or of subjects of such state, and, also, persons who, though born abroad, are british subjects by reason of parentage, may, by declarations of alienage, get rid of british nationality. emigration to an uncivilized country left british nationality unaffected : indeed the right claimed by all states to follow with their authority their subjects so emigrating was one of the usual and recognized means of colonial expansion. united states the doctrine that no man can cast off his native allegiance without the consent of his sovereign was early abandoned in the united states, and chief justice john rutledge also declared in talbot v. janson, " a man may, at the same time, enjoy the rights of citizenship under two governments. " on july 27, 1868, the day before the fourteenth amendment was adopted, u. s. congress declared in the preamble of the expatriation act that " the right of expatriation is a natural and inherent right of all people, indispensable to the enjoyment of the rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, " and ( section i ) one of " the fundamental principles of this government " ( united states revised statutes, sec. 1999 ). every natural - born citizen of a foreign state who is also an american citizen, and every natural - born american citizen who is also a citizen of a foreign land, owes a double allegiance, one to the united states, and one to their homeland ( in the event of an immigrant becoming a citizen of the us ) or to their adopted land ( in the event of an emigrant natural - born citizen of the us becoming a citizen of another nation ). if these allegiances come into conflict, the person may be guilty of treason against one or both. if the demands of these two sovereigns upon their duty of allegiance come into conflict, those of the united states have the paramount authority in american law