found during the apollo program is dubbed the genesis rock, retrieved by astronauts david scott and james irwin during the apollo 15 mission. this anorthosite rock is composed almost exclusively of the calcium - rich feldspar mineral anorthite, and is believed to be representative of the highland crust. a geochemical component called kreep was discovered by apollo 12, which has no known terrestrial counterpart. kreep and the anorthositic samples have been used to infer that the outer portion of the moon was once completely molten ( see lunar magma ocean ). almost all the rocks show evidence of impact process effects. many samples appear to be pitted with micrometeoroid impact craters, which is never seen on earth rocks, due to the thick atmosphere. many show signs of being subjected to high - pressure shock waves that are generated during impact events. some of the returned samples are of impact melt ( materials melted near an impact crater. ) all samples returned from the moon are highly brecciated as a result of being subjected to multiple impact events. from analyses of the composition of the returned lunar samples, it is now believed that the moon was created through the impact of a large astronomical body with earth. costs apollo cost $ 25. 4 billion ( or approximately $ in dollars when adjusted for inflation via the gdp deflator index ). of this amount, $ 20. 2 billion ( $ adjusted ) was spent on the design, development, and production of the saturn family of launch vehicles, the apollo spacecraft, spacesuits, scientific experiments, and mission operations. the cost of constructing and operating apollo - related ground facilities, such as the nasa human spaceflight centers and the global tracking and data acquisition network, added an additional $ 5. 2 billion ( $ adjusted ). the amount grows to $ 28 billion ( $ adjusted ) if the costs for related projects such as project gemini and the robotic ranger, surveyor, and lunar orbiter programs are included. nasa ' s official cost breakdown, as reported to congress in the spring of 1973, is as follows : accurate estimates of human spaceflight costs were difficult in the early 1960s, as the capability was new and management experience was lacking. preliminary cost analysis by nasa estimated $ 7 billion – $ 12 billion for a crewed lunar landing effort. nasa administrator james webb increased this estimate to $ 20 billion before reporting it to vice president johnson in april 1961. project apollo was a massive undertaking, representing the largest research and development project in peacetime. at its peak, it employed over 400, 000