system, the principal quantum number is given a letter associated with it. for, the letters associated with those numbers are k, l, m, n, o,... respectively. hydrogen - like orbitals the simplest atomic orbitals are those that are calculated for systems with a single electron, such as the hydrogen atom. an atom of any other element ionized down to a single electron is very similar to hydrogen, and the orbitals take the same form. in the schrodinger equation for this system of one negative and one positive particle, the atomic orbitals are the eigenstates of the hamiltonian operator for the energy. they can be obtained analytically, meaning that the resulting orbitals are products of a polynomial series, and exponential and trigonometric functions. ( see hydrogen atom ). for atoms with two or more electrons, the governing equations can be solved only with the use of methods of iterative approximation. orbitals of multi - electron atoms are qualitatively similar to those of hydrogen, and in the simplest models, they are taken to have the same form. for more rigorous and precise analysis, numerical approximations must be used. a given ( hydrogen - like ) atomic orbital is identified by unique values of three quantum numbers :,, and. the rules restricting the values of the quantum numbers, and their energies ( see below ), explain the electron configuration of the atoms and the periodic table. the stationary states ( quantum states ) of the hydrogen - like atoms are its atomic orbitals. however, in general, an electron ' s behavior is not fully described by a single orbital. electron states are best represented by time - depending " mixtures " ( linear combinations ) of multiple orbitals. see linear combination of atomic orbitals molecular orbital method. the quantum number first appeared in the bohr model where it determines the radius of each circular electron orbit. in modern quantum mechanics however, determines the mean distance of the electron from the nucleus ; all electrons with the same value of n lie at the same average distance. for this reason, orbitals with the same value of n are said to comprise a " shell ". orbitals with the same value of n and also the same value of are even more closely related, and are said to comprise a " subshell ". quantum numbers because of the quantum mechanical nature of the electrons around a nucleus, atomic orbitals can be uniquely defined by a set of integers known as quantum numbers. these quantum numbers occur only in certain combinations of values, and their