alleged violations of " english rights " committed by george iii. this is also one of the foremost times that the colonies were referred to as " united states ", rather than the more common united colonies. on july 2, congress voted for independence and published the declaration on july 4, which washington read to his troops in new york city on july 9. at this point, the revolution ceased to be an internal dispute over trade and tax policies and had evolved into a civil war, since each state represented in congress was engaged in a struggle with britain, but also split between american patriots and american loyalists. patriots generally supported independence from britain and a new national union in congress, while loyalists remained faithful to british rule. estimates of numbers vary, one suggestion being the population as a whole was split evenly between committed patriots, committed loyalists, and those who were indifferent. others calculate the split as 40 % patriot, 40 % neutral, 20 % loyalist, but with considerable regional variations. at the onset of the war, the second continental congress realized defeating britain required foreign alliances and intelligence - gathering. the committee of secret correspondence was formed for " the sole purpose of corresponding with our friends in great britain and other parts of the world ". from 1775 to 1776, the committee shared information and built alliances through secret correspondence, as well as employing secret agents in europe to gather intelligence, conduct undercover operations, analyze foreign publications, and initiate patriot propaganda campaigns. paine served as secretary, while benjamin franklin and silas deane, sent to france to recruit military engineers, were instrumental in securing french aid in paris. war breaks out the revolutionary war included two principal campaign theaters within the thirteen colonies, and a smaller but strategically important third one west of the appalachian mountains. fighting began in the northern theater and was at its most severe from 1775 to 1778. american patriots achieved several strategic victories in the south. the americans defeated the british army at saratoga in october 1777, and the french, seeing the possibility for an american patriot victory in the war, formally entered the war as an american ally. during 1778, washington prevented the british army from breaking out of new york city, while militia under george rogers clark conquered western quebec, supported by francophone settlers and their indian allies, which became the northwest territory. the war became a stalemate in the north in 1779, so the british initiated their southern strategy, which aimed to mobilize loyalist support in the region and occupy american patriot - controlled territory north to chesapeake bay. the campaign was initially successful, with the british capture of charleston being a major setback