hometown. johnston street, hancock street, and griffin avenue, each in northeast los angeles, are named after the general and his family, who lived in the neighborhood. johnston was initially buried in new orleans. in 1866, a joint resolution of the texas legislature was passed to have his body moved and reinterred at the texas state cemetery in austin. the re - interment occurred in 1867. forty years later, the state appointed elisabet ney to design a monument and sculpture of him to be erected at the grave site, installed in 1905. the texas historical commission has erected a historical marker near the entrance of what was once johnston ' s plantation. an adjacent marker was erected by the san jacinto chapter of the daughters of the republic of texas and the lee, roberts, and davis chapter of the united daughters of the confederate states of america. in 1916, the university of texas at austin recognized several confederate veterans ( including johnston ) with statues on its south mall. on august 21, 2017, as part of the wave of confederate monument removals in america, johnston ' s statue was taken down. plans were announced to add it to the briscoe center for american history on the east side of the university campus. johnston was inducted to the texas military hall of honor in 1980. in the fall of 2018, a. s. johnston elementary school in dallas, texas, was renamed cedar crest elementary. johnston middle school in houston, texas, was also renamed meyerland middle school. three other elementary schools named for confederate veterans were renamed simultaneously. see also albert sidney johnston high school, a defunct public high school in austin, texas statue of albert sidney johnston ( texas state cemetery ), a 1903 memorial sculpture by elisabet ney statue of albert sidney johnston ( university of texas at austin ), a statue by pompeo coppini list of american civil war generals ( confederate ) list of confederate monuments and memorials notes references beauregard, g. t. the campaign of shiloh. p. 579. in battles and leaders of the civil war, vol. i, edited by robert underwood johnson and clarence c. buel. new york : century co., 1884 – 1888.. dupuy, trevor n., curt johnson, and david l. bongard. harper encyclopedia of military biography. new york : harpercollins, 1992.. hattaway, herman, and archer jones. how the north won : a military history of the civil war. urbana : university of illinois press, 1983.. long,