s method to succeed, the starting lengths must satisfy two requirements : ( i ) the lengths must not be zero, and ( ii ) the subtraction must be " proper " ; i. e., a test must guarantee that the smaller of the two numbers is subtracted from the larger ( or the two can be equal so their subtraction yields zero ). euclid ' s original proof adds a third requirement : the two lengths must not be prime to one another. euclid stipulated this so that he could construct a reductio ad absurdum proof that the two numbers ' common measure is in fact the greatest. while nicomachus ' algorithm is the same as euclid ' s, when the numbers are prime to one another, it yields the number " 1 " for their common measure. so, to be precise, the following is really nicomachus ' algorithm. computer language for euclid ' s algorithm only a few instruction types are required to execute euclid ' s algorithm — some logical tests ( conditional goto ), unconditional goto, assignment ( replacement ), and subtraction. a location is symbolized by upper case letter ( s ), e. g. s, a, etc. the varying quantity ( number ) in a location is written in lower case letter ( s ) and ( usually ) associated with the location ' s name. for example, location l at the start might contain the number l = 3009. an inelegant program for euclid ' s algorithm the following algorithm is framed as knuth ' s four - step version of euclid ' s and nicomachus ', but, rather than using division to find the remainder, it uses successive subtractions of the shorter length s from the remaining length r until r is less than s. the high - level description, shown in boldface, is adapted from knuth 1973 : 2 – 4 : input : [ into two locations l and s put the numbers l and s that represent the two lengths ] : input l, s [ initialize r : make the remaining length r equal to the starting / initial / input length l ] : r ← l e0 : [ ensure r ≥ s. ] [ ensure the smaller of the two numbers is in s and the larger in r ] : if r > s then the contents of l is the larger number so skip over the exchange - steps 4, 5 and 6 : goto step 7 else swap the contents of