a type of assault and is considered a serious crime. battery can include a wide range of actions, from slapping someone to causing serious harm or even death. depending on the severity of the offense, it can carry a wide range of punishments, including jail time, fines, and probation. in jurisdictions that make a distinction between the two, assault usually accompanies battery if the assailant both threatens to make unwanted contact and then carries through with this threat. see common assault. the elements of battery are that it is a volitional act, done for the purpose of causing a harmful or offensive contact with another person or under circumstances that make such contact substantially certain to occur, and which causes such contact. aggravated assault aggravated assault is a violent crime that involves violence or the threat of violence. it is generally described as an intentional act that causes another person to fear imminent physical harm or injury. this can include the use of a weapon, or the threat of using a weapon. it is usually considered a felony offense and can carry severe penalties. aggravated assault is often considered a very serious crime and can lead to long - term prison sentences. aggravated assault is, in some jurisdictions, a stronger form of assault, usually using a deadly weapon. a person has committed an aggravated assault when that person attempts to : cause serious bodily injury to another person with a deadly weapon have sexual relations with a person who is under the age of consent cause bodily harm by recklessly operating a motor vehicle during road rage ; often referred to as either vehicular assault or aggravated assault with a motor vehicle. aggravated assault can also be charged in cases of attempted harm against police officers or other public servants. defenses although the range and precise application of defenses varies between jurisdictions, the following represents a list of the defenses that may apply to all levels of assault : consent exceptions exist to cover unsolicited physical contact which amount to normal social behavior known as de minimis harm. assault can also be considered in cases involving the spitting on, or unwanted exposure of bodily fluids to others. consent may be a complete or partial defense to assault. in some jurisdictions, most notably england, it is not a defense where the degree of injury is severe, as long as there is no legally recognized good reason for the assault. this can have important consequences when dealing with issues such as consensual sadomasochistic sexual activity, the most notable case being the operation spanner case. legally recognized good reasons for consent include surgery, activities within the rules of a game ( mixed martial arts, wrestling