or for the senate again, while others thought that he would become a railroad executive. johnson found greeneville boring, and his private life was embittered by the suicide of his son robert in 1869. seeking vindication for himself, and revenge against his political enemies, he launched a senate bid soon after returning home. tennessee had gone republican, but court rulings restoring the vote to some whites and suppression of the african - american vote by the ku klux klan led to a democratic victory in the legislative elections in august 1869. johnson was seen as a likely victor in the senate election, although hated by radical republicans, and by some democrats because of his wartime activities. although he was at one point within a single vote of victory in the legislature ' s balloting, the republicans eventually elected henry cooper over johnson, 54 – 51. in 1872, there was a special election for an at - large congressional seat for tennessee ; johnson initially sought the democratic nomination, but when he saw that it would go to former confederate general benjamin f. cheatham, decided to run as an independent. the former president was defeated, finishing third, but the split in the democratic party defeated cheatham in favor of an old johnson unionist ally, horace maynard. in 1873, johnson contracted cholera during an epidemic but recovered ; that year he lost about $ 73, 000 ( ~ $ in ) when the first national bank of washington went under, though he was eventually repaid much of the sum. return to the senate he began looking towards the next senate election to take place in the legislature in early 1875. johnson began to woo the farmers ' grange movement ; with his jeffersonian leanings, he easily gained their support. he spoke throughout the state in his final campaign tour. few african americans outside the large towns were now able to vote as reconstruction faded in tennessee, setting a pattern that would be repeated in the other southern states ; the white domination would last almost a century. in the tennessee legislative elections in august, the democrats elected 92 legislators to the republicans ' eight, and johnson went to nashville for the legislative session. when the balloting for the senate seat began on january 20, 1875, he led with 30 votes, but did not have the required majority as three former confederate generals, one former colonel, and a former democratic congressman split the vote with him. johnson ' s opponents tried to agree on a single candidate who might gain majority support and defeat him, but failed, and he was elected on january 26 on the 54th ballot, with a margin of a single vote.