shown to be the sum of three sine waves : therefore, the modulated signal has three components : the carrier wave c ( t ) which is unchanged in frequency, and two sidebands with frequencies slightly above and below the carrier frequency fc. spectrum a useful modulation signal m ( t ) is usually more complex than a single sine wave, as treated above. however, by the principle of fourier decomposition, m ( t ) can be expressed as the sum of a set of sine waves of various frequencies, amplitudes, and phases. carrying out the multiplication of 1 + m ( t ) with c ( t ) as above, the result consists of a sum of sine waves. again, the carrier c ( t ) is present unchanged, but each frequency component of m at fi has two sidebands at frequencies fc + fi and fc – fi. the collection of the former frequencies above the carrier frequency is known as the upper sideband, and those below constitute the lower sideband. the modulation m ( t ) may be considered to consist of an equal mix of positive and negative frequency components, as shown in the top of figure 2. one can view the sidebands as that modulation m ( t ) having simply been shifted in frequency by fc as depicted at the bottom right of figure 2. the short - term spectrum of modulation, changing as it would for a human voice for instance, the frequency content ( horizontal axis ) may be plotted as a function of time ( vertical axis ), as in figure 3. it can again be seen that as the modulation frequency content varies, an upper sideband is generated according to those frequencies shifted above the carrier frequency, and the same content mirror - imaged in the lower sideband below the carrier frequency. at all times, the carrier itself remains constant, and of greater power than the total sideband power. power and spectrum efficiency the rf bandwidth of an am transmission ( refer to figure 2, but only considering positive frequencies ) is twice the bandwidth of the modulating ( or " baseband " ) signal, since the upper and lower sidebands around the carrier frequency each have a bandwidth as wide as the highest modulating frequency. although the bandwidth of an am signal is narrower than one using frequency modulation ( fm ), it is twice as wide as single - sideband techniques ; it thus may be viewed as spectrally inefficient. within a frequency band, only half as many transmissions ( or " channels " ) can thus be accommodated. for this reason analog television