. evolutionary tree according to a 2019 study : paleobiology the ardipithecus length measures are good indicators of function and together with dental isotope data and the fauna and flora from the fossil site indicate ardipithecus was mainly a terrestrial quadruped collecting a large portion of its food on the ground. its arboreal behaviors would have been limited and suspension from branches solely from the upper limbs rare. a comparative study in 2013 on carbon and oxygen stable isotopes within modern and fossil tooth enamel revealed that ardipithecus fed both arboreally ( on trees ) and on the ground in a more open habitat, unlike chimpanzees. in 2015, australian anthropologists gary clark and maciej henneberg said that ardipithecus adults have a facial anatomy more similar to chimpanzee subadults than adults, with a less - projecting face and smaller canines ( large canines in primate males are used to compete within mating hierarchies ), and attributed this to a decrease in craniofacial growth in favour of brain growth. this is only seen in humans, so they argued that the species may show the first trend towards human social, parenting and sexual psychology. previously, it was assumed that such ancient human ancestors behaved much like chimps, but this is no longer considered to be a viable comparison. this view has yet to be corroborated by more detailed studies of the growth of a. ramidus. the study also provides support for stephen jay gould ' s theory in ontogeny and phylogeny that the paedomorphic ( childlike ) form of early hominin craniofacial morphology results from dissociation of growth trajectories. clark and henneberg also argued that such shortening of the skull — which may have caused a descension of the larynx — as well as lordosis — allowing better movement of the larynx — increased vocal ability, significantly pushing back the origin of language to well before the evolution of homo. they argued that self domestication was aided by the development of vocalization, living in a pro - social society. they conceded that chimps and a. ramidus likely had the same vocal capabilities, but said that a. ramidus made use of more complex vocalizations, and vocalized at the same level as a human infant due to selective pressure to become more social. this would have allowed their society to become more complex. they also noted that the base