attended a presbyterian church in their youth. first invention as a child, bell displayed a curiosity about his world ; he gathered botanical specimens and ran experiments at an early age. his best friend was ben herdman, a neighbour whose family operated a flour mill. at the age of 12, bell built a homemade device that combined rotating paddles with sets of nail brushes, creating a simple dehusking machine that was put into operation at the mill and used steadily for a number of years. in return, ben ' s father john herdman gave both boys the run of a small workshop in which to " invent ". from his early years, bell showed a sensitive nature and a talent for art, poetry, and music that was encouraged by his mother. with no formal training, he mastered the piano and became the family ' s pianist. despite being normally quiet and introspective, he revelled in mimicry and " voice tricks " akin to ventriloquism that continually entertained family guests during their occasional visits. bell was also deeply affected by his mother ' s gradual deafness ( she began to lose her hearing when he was 12 ), and learned a manual finger language so he could sit at her side and tap out silently the conversations swirling around the family parlour. he also developed a technique of speaking in clear, modulated tones directly into his mother ' s forehead wherein she would hear him with reasonable clarity. bell ' s preoccupation with his mother ' s deafness led him to study acoustics. his family was long associated with the teaching of elocution : his grandfather, alexander bell, in london, his uncle in dublin, and his father, in edinburgh, were all elocutionists. his father published a variety of works on the subject, several of which are still well known, especially his the standard elocutionist ( 1860 ), which appeared in edinburgh in 1868. the standard elocutionist appeared in 168 british editions and sold over a quarter of a million copies in the united states alone. in this treatise, his father explains his methods of how to instruct deaf - mutes ( as they were then known ) to articulate words and read other people ' s lip movements to decipher meaning. bell ' s father taught him and his brothers not only to write visible speech but to identify any symbol and its accompanying sound. bell became so proficient that he became a part of his father ' s public demonstrations and astounded audiences with his abilities. he could decipher