to his side. the animals work harder with the promise of easier lives with the windmill. when the animals find the windmill collapsed after a violent storm, napoleon and squealer persuade the animals that snowball is trying to sabotage their project, and begin to purge the farm of animals accused by napoleon of consorting with his old rival. when some animals recall the battle of the cowshed, napoleon ( who was nowhere to be found during the battle ) gradually smears snowball to the point of saying he is a collaborator of mr. jones, even dismissing the fact that snowball was given an award of courage while falsely representing himself as the main hero of the battle. " beasts of england " is replaced with " animal farm ", while an anthem glorifying napoleon, who is presumably adopting the lifestyle of a man ( " comrade napoleon " ), is composed and sung. napoleon then conducts a second purge, during which many animals who are alleged to be helping snowball in plots are executed by napoleon ' s dogs, which troubles the rest of the animals. despite their hardships, the animals are easily placated by napoleon ' s retort that they are better off than they were under mr. jones, as well as by the sheep ' s continual bleating of " four legs good, two legs bad ". mr. frederick, a neighbouring farmer, attacks the farm, using blasting powder to blow up the restored windmill. although the animals win the battle, they do so at great cost, as many, including boxer the workhorse, are wounded. although he recovers from this, boxer eventually collapses while working on the windmill ( being almost 12 years old at that point ). he is taken away in a knacker ' s van and a donkey called benjamin alerts the animals of this, but squealer quickly waves off their alarm by persuading the animals that the van had been purchased from the knacker by an animal hospital and that the previous owner ' s signboard had not been repainted. squealer subsequently reports boxer ' s death and honours him with a festival the following day. in truth, napoleon had engineered the sale of boxer to the knacker, allowing him and his inner circle to acquire money to buy whisky for themselves. years pass, the windmill is rebuilt and another windmill is constructed, which makes the farm a good amount of income. however, the ideals that snowball discussed, including stalls with electric lighting, heating, and running water, are forgotten, with napoleon advocating that