not been given his due credit, largely because his naturalistic approach was strongly opposed in antiquity ( among others by aristotle ) and had yet to yield the tangible benefits it has today. legacy in the 2017 essay collection anaximander in context : new studies on the origins of greek philosophy, dirk couprie, robert hahn and gerald naddaf describe anaximander as " one of the greatest minds in history ", but one that has not been given his due. couprie goes to state that he considers him on par with newton. bertrand russell in the history of western philosophy interprets anaximander ' s theories as an assertion of the necessity of an appropriate balance between earth, fire, and water, all of which may be independently seeking to aggrandize their proportions relative to the others. anaximander seems to express his belief that a natural order ensures balance among these elements, that where there was fire, ashes ( earth ) now exist. his greek peers echoed this sentiment with their belief in natural boundaries beyond which not even the gods could operate. friedrich nietzsche, in philosophy in the tragic age of the greeks, claimed that anaximander was a pessimist who asserted that the primal being of the world was a state of indefiniteness. in accordance with this, anything definite has to eventually pass back into indefiniteness. in other words, anaximander viewed "... all coming - to - be as though it were an illegitimate emancipation from eternal being, a wrong for which destruction is the only penance ". ( ibid., § 4 ) the world of individual objects, in this way of thinking, has no worth and should perish. martin heidegger lectured extensively on anaximander, and delivered a lecture entitled " anaximander ' s saying " which was subsequently included in off the beaten track. the lecture examines the ontological difference and the oblivion of being or dasein in the context of the anaximander fragment. heidegger ' s lecture is, in turn, an important influence on the french philosopher jacques derrida. the anaximander ( 31st ) high school of thessaloniki, greece is named after anaximander. works according to the suda : on nature ( / peri phuseos ) rotation of the earth ( / ges periodos ) on fixed stars ( / peri ton aplanon ) the [ celestial ] sphere ( / sphaira ) see also indefinite monism references sources primary aelian : various