deinodon. in 1922, william diller matthew renamed a. sarcophagus into deinodon sarcophagus. in 1939, german paleontologist oskar kuhn renamed a. arctunguis into deinodon arctunguis. description albertosaurus was a fairly large bipedal predator, but smaller than tarbosaurus and tyrannosaurus rex. typical albertosaurus adults measured up to long and weighed between in body mass. albertosaurus shared a similar body appearance with all other tyrannosaurids, gorgosaurus in particular. typical for a theropod, albertosaurus was bipedal and balanced its large, heavy head and torso with a long, muscular tail. however, tyrannosaurid forelimbs were extremely small for their body size and retained only two functional fingers, the second being longer than the first. the legs were long and ended in a four - toed foot on which the first toe, the hallux, was very short and did not reach the ground. the third toe was longer than the rest. albertosaurus may have been able to reach walking speeds of 14 – 21 km / hour ( 8 – 13 mi / hour ). at least for the younger individuals, a high running speed is plausible. two skin impressions from albertosaurus are known and both show scales. one patch is found associated with some gastralic ribs and the impression of a long, unknown bone, indicating that the patch is from the belly. the scales are pebbly and gradually become larger and somewhat hexagonal in shape. also preserved are two larger feature scales, placed 4. 5 cm apart from each other, making albertosaurus, along with carnotaurus, the only known theropods with preserved feature scales. another skin impression is from an unknown part of the body. these scales are small, diamond - shaped, and arranged in rows. skull and teeth the massive skull of albertosaurus, which was perched on a muscular, short, s - shaped neck, was about long in the largest adults. wide openings in the skull, called fenestrae, provided space for muscle attachment sites and sensory organs that reduced its overall weight. its long jaws contained, both sides combined, 58 or more banana - shaped teeth. larger tyrannosaurids possessed fewer teeth, but gorgosaurus had 62. unlike most theropods, albertosaurus and other tyrannosaurids were heterodont, with teeth of different forms depending on their position in the mouth. the premaxillary