georgian are mostly found outside the city ' s centre in the neighbourhoods built in the early 20th century, although there are also some striking examples of these styles in the city centre. most historic buildings in the city centre and nearby are houses, such as the famous merchants ' houses lining the canals. parks and recreational areas amsterdam has many parks, open spaces, and squares throughout the city. the vondelpark, the largest park in the city, is located in the oud - zuid neighbourhood and is named after the 17th - century amsterdam author joost van den vondel. yearly, the park has around 10 million visitors. in the park is an open - air theatre, a playground and several horeca facilities. in the zuid borough, is the beatrixpark, named after queen beatrix. between amsterdam and amstelveen is the amsterdamse bos ( " amsterdam forest " ), the largest recreational area in amsterdam. annually, almost 4. 5 million people visit the park, which has a size of 1. 000 hectares and is approximately three times the size of central park. the amstelpark in the zuid borough houses the rieker windmill, which dates to 1636. other parks include the sarphatipark in the de pijp neighbourhood, the oosterpark in the oost borough and the westerpark in the westerpark neighbourhood. the city has three beaches : nemo beach, citybeach " het stenen hoofd " ( silodam ) and blijburg, all located in the centrum borough. the city has many open squares ( plein in dutch ). the namesake of the city as the site of the original dam, dam square, is the main city square and has the royal palace and national monument. museumplein hosts various museums, including the, van gogh museum, and stedelijk museum. other squares include rembrandtplein, muntplein, nieuwmarkt, leidseplein, spui and waterlooplein. also, near to amsterdam is the nekkeveld estate conservation project. economy amsterdam is the financial and business capital of the netherlands. according to the 2007 european cities monitor ( ecm ) – an annual location survey of europe ' s leading companies carried out by global real estate consultant cushman & wakefield – amsterdam is one of the top european cities in which to locate an international business, ranking fifth in the survey. with the survey determining london, paris, frankfurt