##elijk hof van justitie van aruba, curacao, sint maarten, en van bonaire, sint eustatius en saba ( joint court of justice of aruba, curacao, sint maarten, and of bonaire, sint eustatius and saba ) and the hoge raad der nederlanden ( supreme court of justice of the netherlands ). the korps politie aruba ( aruba police force ) is the island ' s law enforcement agency and operates district precincts in oranjestad, noord, san nicolaas, and santa cruz, where it is headquartered. divergent legal protections from the rest of the kingdom of the netherlands include : not being part of the law enforcement council ( raad van de rechtshandhaving ), which is a legal entity based on the kingdom act of the july 7, 2010 the kingdom act on the law enforcement council. being the only country in the kingdom of the netherlands that does not have an ombudsman. deficit spending has been a staple in aruba ' s history, and modestly high inflation has been present as well. by 2006, the government ' s debt had grown to 1. 883 billion aruban florins. in 2006, the aruban government changed several tax laws to reduce the deficit. direct taxes have been converted to indirect taxes as proposed by the imf. foreign relations aruba is one of the overseas countries and territories ( oct ) of the european union and maintains economic and cultural relations with the european union and the united states. aruba is also a member of several international organizations such as the international monetary fund and interpol. military defence on aruba is the responsibility of the kingdom of the netherlands. the dutch armed forces that protect the island include the navy, marine corps, and the coastguard including a platoon sized national guard. all forces are stationed at marines base in savaneta. furthermore, in 1999, the u. s. department of defense established a forward operating location ( fol ) at the airport. education historically, dutch was not widely spoken on the island outside of colonial administration ; its use increased in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. students on curacao, aruba, and bonaire were taught predominantly in spanish until the late 18th century. aruba ' s educational system is structured after the dutch system of education. the government of aruba finances the public national education system. schools are a mixture