of tasghimut, southeast of marrakesh, and amargu, northeast of fes, provide evidence about other almoravid forts. built out of rubble stone or rammed earth, they illustrate similarities with older hammadid fortifications, as well as an apparent need to build quickly during times of crisis. the walls of tlemcen ( present - day algeria ) were likewise partly built by the almoravids, using a mix of rubble stone at the base and rammed earth above. in domestic architecture, none of the almoravid palaces or residences have survived, and they are known only through texts and archaeology. during his reign, ali ibn yusuf added a large palace and royal residence on the south side of the ksar el - hajjar ( on the present site of the kutubiyya mosque ). this palace was later abandoned and its function was replaced by the almohad kasbah, but some of its remains have been excavated and studied in the 20th century. these remains have revealed the earliest known example in morocco of a riad garden ( an interior garden symmetrically divided into four parts ). in 1960 other excavations near chichaoua revealed the remains of a domestic complex or settlement dating from the almoravid period or even earlier. it consisted of several houses, two hammams, a water supply system, and possibly a mosque. on the site were found many fragments of architectural decoration which are now preserved at the archeological museum of rabat. these fragments are made of deeply - carved stucco featuring kufic and cursive arabic inscriptions as well as vegetal motifs such as palmettes and acanthus leaves. the structures also featured painted decoration in red ochre, typically consisting of border motifs composed of two interlacing bands. similar decoration has also been found in the remains of former houses excavated in 2006 under the 12th - century almoravid expansion of the qarawiyyin mosque in fes. in addition to the usual border motifs were larger interlacing geometric motifs as well as kufic inscriptions with vegetal backgrounds, all executed predominantly in red. literature the almoravid movement has its intellectual origins in the writings and teachings of abu imran al - fasi, who first inspired yahya ibn ibrahim of the guddala tribe in kairouan. ibn ibrahim then inspired abdallah ibn yasin to organize for jihad and start the almoravid movement. moroccan literature flourished in the almoravid period. the political unification of morocco and al - and