protons. essentially all aluminium now in existence is 27al. 26al was present in the early solar system with abundance of 0. 005 % relative to 27al but its half - life of 728, 000 years is too short for any original nuclei to survive ; 26al is therefore extinct. unlike for 27al, hydrogen burning is the primary source of 26al, with the nuclide emerging after a nucleus of 25mg catches a free proton. however, the trace quantities of 26al that do exist are the most common gamma ray emitter in the interstellar gas ; if the original 26al were still present, gamma ray maps of the milky way would be brighter. earth overall, the earth is about 1. 59 % aluminium by mass ( seventh in abundance by mass ). aluminium occurs in greater proportion in the earth ' s crust than in the universe at large, because aluminium easily forms the oxide and becomes bound into rocks and stays in the earth ' s crust, while less reactive metals sink to the core. in the earth ' s crust, aluminium is the most abundant metallic element ( 8. 23 % by mass ) and the third most abundant of all elements ( after oxygen and silicon ). a large number of silicates in the earth ' s crust contain aluminium. in contrast, the earth ' s mantle is only 2. 38 % aluminium by mass. aluminium also occurs in seawater at a concentration of 2 μg / kg. because of its strong affinity for oxygen, aluminium is almost never found in the elemental state ; instead it is found in oxides or silicates. feldspars, the most common group of minerals in the earth ' s crust, are aluminosilicates. aluminium also occurs in the minerals beryl, cryolite, garnet, spinel, and turquoise. impurities in al2o3, such as chromium and iron, yield the gemstones ruby and sapphire, respectively. native aluminium metal is extremely rare and can only be found as a minor phase in low oxygen fugacity environments, such as the interiors of certain volcanoes. native aluminium has been reported in cold seeps in the northeastern continental slope of the south china sea. it is possible that these deposits resulted from bacterial reduction of tetrahydroxoaluminate al ( oh ) 4−. although aluminium is a common and widespread element, not all aluminium minerals are economically viable sources of the metal. almost all metallic aluminium is produced from the ore bauxite ( alox (