verbs. in different languages, adjectives ( and other modifiers ) must either precede or follow the noun. in most aa languages, numerals precede the noun. in those languages that have adjectives, they can take gender and number markings, which, in some cases, agree with the gender and number of the noun they are modifying. however, in omotic, adjectives do not agree with nouns : sometimes, they only but take gender and number marking only when they are used as nouns, in other cases, they take gender and number marking only when they follow the noun ( the noun then receives no marking ). a widespread pattern of gender and number marking in afroasiatic, found on demonstratives, articles, adjectives, and relative markers, is a consonant n for masculine, t for feminine, and n for plural. this can be found in semitic, egyptian, beja, berber, and chadic. a system k ( masculine ), t ( feminine ), and h ( plural ) can be found in cushitic, chadic, with masculine k also appearing in omotic. the feminine marker t is one of the most consistent aspects across the different branches of aa. verb forms tenses, aspects, and moods ( tams ) there is no agreement about which tenses, aspects, or moods ( tams ) proto - afroasiatic might have had. most grammars of aa posit a distinction between perfective and imperfective verbal aspects, which can be found in cushitic, berber, semitic, most chadic languages, and some omotic languages. the egyptian verbal system diverges greatly from that found in the other branches. additionally, it is common in afroasiatic languages for the present / imperfective form to be a derived ( marked ) form of the verb, whereas in most other languages and language families the present tense is the default form of the verb. another common trait across the family is the use of a suppletive imperative for verbs of motion. " prefix conjugation " conjugation of verbs using prefixes that mark person, number, and gender can be found in semitic, berber, and in cushitic, where it is only found on a small set of frequent verbs. these prefixes are clearly cognate across the branches, although their use within the verbal systems of the individual languages varies. there is a general pattern in which n - is used for the first person plural, whereas t - is used for all forms of the