gain from the conservatives, this coalition held 28 of the 43 seats. following the election of 4 may 2017, the council was controlled by a coalition of scottish labour, scottish conservatives and independent councillors ; the labour councillors were subsequently suspended by scottish labour party leader, kezia dugdale. following conservative losses in the may 2022 local elections, the liberal democrats and snp agreed to work in partnership, agreed on a policy programme and formed the council ' s administration. aberdeen is represented in the parliament of the united kingdom by three constituencies : aberdeen north and aberdeen south which are wholly within the aberdeen city council area, and gordon, which includes a large area of the aberdeenshire council area. in the scottish parliament, the city is represented by three constituencies with different boundaries : aberdeen central and aberdeen donside are wholly within the aberdeen city council area. aberdeen south and north kincardine includes the north kincardine ward of aberdeenshire council. a further seven msps are elected as part of the north east scotland electoral region. in the european parliament the city was represented by six meps as part of the all - inclusive scotland constituency. heraldry the arms and banner of the city show three silver towers on red. this motif dates from at least the time of robert the bruce and represents the buildings that stood on the three hills of medieval aberdeen : aberdeen castle on castle hill ( today ' s castlegate ) ; the city gate on port hill ; and a church on st catherine ' s hill ( now levelled ). " bon accord " is the motto of the city and is french for " good agreement ". legend tells that its use dates from a password used by robert the bruce during the 14th century wars of scottish independence, when he and his men laid siege to the english - held aberdeen castle before destroying it in 1308. it is still widely present in the city, throughout street names, business names and the city ' s bon accord shopping mall. the shield in the coat of arms is supported by two leopards. a local magazine is called the " leopard " and, when union bridge was widened in the 20th century, small statues of the creature in a sitting position were cast and placed on top of the railing posts ( known locally as kelly ' s cats ). the city ' s toast is " happy to meet, sorry to part, happy to meet again " ; this has been commonly misinterpreted as the translation of bon accord. geography being situated between two river mouths, the city has little natural exposure of bedrock. the small amount of