called caretaker. the castle of abensberg was destroyed during the thirty years ' war, although the city had bought a guarantee of protection from the swedish general, carl gustaf wrangel. during the war of the spanish succession emperor leopold i, who had occupied bavaria, granted the fief of abensberg to count ernst von abensperg und traun ( 1608 – 1668 ) from an austrian noble family named traun that now received the name of the former counts of abensberg ( who were believed to be distant relatives ). after the occupation ended, he was however dispossessed. johannes aventinus ( 1477 – 1534 ) is the city ' s most famous son, the founder of the study of history in bavaria. aventinus, whose name was real name is johann or johannes turmair ( aventinus being the latin name of his birthplace ) wrote the annals of bavaria, a valuable record of the early history of germany and the first major written work on the subject. he is commemorated in the walhalla temple, a monument near regensburg to the distinguished figures of german history. until 1800, abensberg was a municipality belonging to the straubing district of the electorate of bavaria. abensberg also contained a magistrates ' court. in the battle of abensberg on 19 – 20 april 1809, napoleon gained a significant victory over the austrians under archduke ludwig of austria and general johann von hiller. coat of arms the arms of the city are divided into two halves. on the left are the blue and white rhombuses of bavaria, while the right half is split into two silver and black triangles. two diagonally - crossed silver swords with golden handles rest on top. the town has had a coat of arms since 1338, that of the counts of abensberg. with the death of the last count, nicholas of abensberg, in 1485, the estates fell to the duchy of bavaria - munich, meaning that henceforth only the bavarian coat of arms was ever used. on 31 december 1809, a decree of king maximilian of bavaria granted the city a new coat of arms, as a recognition of their ( mainly humanitarian and logistic ) services in the battle of abensberg the same year. the diagonally divided field in silver and black came from the old crest of the counts of abensberg, while the white and blue diamonds came from that of the house of wittelsbach, the rulers of bavaria. the swords