her aside once he is be born. hearing this, leto swore on the river styx that if she is allowed to give birth on the island, her son would honour delos the most amongst all the other lands. assured by this, delos agreed to assist leto. all goddesses except hera also then came to aid leto. however, hera had tricked eileithyia, the goddess of childbirth, to stay on olympus, due to which leto was unable to give birth. the goddesses then convinced iris to go bring eileithyia by offering her a necklace of amber 9 yards ( 8. 2 m ) long. iris did accordingly and persuaded eilithyia to step onto the island. thus, clutching a palm tree, leto finally gave birth after labouring for nine days and nine nights, with apollo " leaping forth " from his mother ' s womb. the goddesses washed the new born, covered him in a white garment and fastened golden bands around him. as leto was unable to feed him, themis, the goddess of divine law, fed him nectar and ambrosia. upon tasting the divine food, the child broke free of the bands fastened onto him and declared that he would be the master of lyre and archery, and interpret the will of zeus to humankind. he then started to walk, which caused the island to be filled with gold. callimachus ' hymn to delos the island delos used to be a woman named asteria, who jumped into the waters to escape the advances of zeus and became a free floating island of the same name. when leto got pregnant, hera was told that leto will give birth to a son who would become to zeus more dearer than ares. enraged by this, hera watched over the heavens and sent out ares and iris to prevent leto from giving birth on the earth. ares stationed over the mainland and iris over the islands, they both threatened all the lands and prevented them from helping leto. when leto arrived to thebes, fetal apollo prophesied from his mother ' s womb that in the future, he would punish a slanderous woman in thebes ( niobe ), and so he did not want to be born there. leto then went to thessaly and sought out the help of the river nymphs whose father was the river peneus. though he was initially fearful and reluctant, peneus later decided to let leto give birth in his waters. he did not change his mind even when ares produced a terrifying