the development of astatine - based radiopharmaceuticals for cancer treatment. world war ii delayed research for close to a decade. results of early experiments indicated that a cancer - selective carrier would need to be developed and it was not until the 1970s that monoclonal antibodies became available for this purpose. unlike iodine, astatine shows a tendency to dehalogenate from molecular carriers such as these, particularly at sp3 carbon sites ( less so from sp2 sites ). given the toxicity of astatine accumulated and retained in the body, this emphasized the need to ensure it remained attached to its host molecule. while astatine carriers that are slowly metabolized can be assessed for their efficacy, more rapidly metabolized carriers remain a significant obstacle to the evaluation of astatine in nuclear medicine. mitigating the effects of astatine - induced radiolysis of labeling chemistry and carrier molecules is another area requiring further development. a practical application for astatine as a cancer treatment would potentially be suitable for a " staggering " number of patients ; production of astatine in the quantities that would be required remains an issue. animal studies show that astatine, similarly to iodine — although to a lesser extent, perhaps because of its slightly more metallic nature — is preferentially ( and dangerously ) concentrated in the thyroid gland. unlike iodine, astatine also shows a tendency to be taken up by the lungs and spleen, possibly because of in - body oxidation of at – to at +. if administered in the form of a radiocolloid it tends to concentrate in the liver. experiments in rats and monkeys suggest that astatine - 211 causes much greater damage to the thyroid gland than does iodine - 131, with repetitive injection of the nuclide resulting in necrosis and cell dysplasia within the gland. early research suggested that injection of astatine into female rodents caused morphological changes in breast tissue ; this conclusion remained controversial for many years. general agreement was later reached that this was likely caused by the effect of breast tissue irradiation combined with hormonal changes due to irradiation of the ovaries. trace amounts of astatine can be handled safely in fume hoods if they are well - aerated ; biological uptake of the element must be avoided. see also radiation protection notes references bibliography external links astatine at the periodic table of videos ( university of nottingham ) astatine : halogen or metal? chemical elements chemical elements with