of the theropod family tyrannosauridae, specifically the subfamily albertosaurinae. its closest relative is the slightly older gorgosaurus libratus ( sometimes called albertosaurus libratus ; see below ). these two species are the only described albertosaurines, but other undescribed species may exist. thomas holtz found appalachiosaurus to be an albertosaurine in 2004, but his more recent unpublished work places it as a basal eotyrannosaurian just outside of tyrannosauridae, in agreement with other authors. the other major subfamily of tyrannosaurids is tyrannosaurinae, which includes members like daspletosaurus, tarbosaurus, and tyrannosaurus. compared with the more robust tyrannosaurines, albertosaurines had slender builds, with proportionately smaller skulls and longer bones of the lower legs ( tibia ) and feet ( metatarsals and phalanges ). below is the cladogram of tyrannosauridae based on the phylogenetic analysis conducted by loewen et al. in 2013. palaeobiology growth pattern most age categories of albertosaurus are represented in the fossil record. using bone histology, the age of an individual animal at the time of death can often be determined, allowing growth rates to be estimated and compared with other species. the youngest known albertosaurus is a two - year - old discovered in the dry island bonebed, which would have weighed about 50 kilograms ( 110 lb ) and measured slightly more than long. the specimen from the same quarry is 28 years old, the oldest and largest one known. when specimens of intermediate age and size are plotted on a graph, an s - shaped growth curve results, with the most rapid growth occurring in a four - year period ending around the sixteenth year of life, a pattern also seen in other tyrannosaurids. the growth rate during this phase was per year, based on an adult weighing 1. 3 tonnes. other studies have suggested higher adult weights, which would affect the magnitude of the growth rate, but not the overall pattern. tyrannosaurids similar in size to albertosaurus had similar growth rates, although the much larger tyrannosaurus rex grew at almost five times this rate ( per year ) at its peak. the end of the rapid growth phase suggests the onset of sexual maturity in albertosaurus, although growth continued at a slower rate throughout the animals ' lives. sexual maturation while still actively