cope, paleontologist based in philadelphia, about the discovery until eventually collecting several fossils and sending them to both paleontologists. marsh named atlantosaurus montanus based on some of the fossils sent and hired lakes to collect the rest of the material at morrison and send it to yale, while cope attempted to hire lakes as well but was rejected. one of the best specimens collected by lakes in 1877 was a well preserved partial postcranial skeleton, including many vertebrae, and a partial braincase ( ypm vp 1860 ), which was sent to marsh and named apatosaurus ajax in november 1877. the composite term apatosaurus comes from the greek words ( ) / ( ) meaning " deception " / " deceptive ", and ( ) meaning " lizard " ; thus, " deceptive lizard ". marsh gave it this name based on the chevron bones, which are dissimilar to those of other dinosaurs ; instead, the chevron bones of apatosaurus showed similarities with those of mosasaurs, most likely that of the representative species mosasaurus. by the end of excavations at lakes ' quarry in morrison, several partial specimens of apatosaurus had been collected, but only the type specimen of a. ajax can be confidently referred to the species. during excavation and transportation, the bones of the holotype skeleton were mixed with those of another apatosaurine individual originally described as atlantosaurus immanis ; as a consequence, some elements cannot be ascribed to either specimen with confidence. marsh distinguished the new genus apatosaurus from atlantosaurus on the basis of the number of sacral vertebrae, with apatosaurus possessing three and atlantosaurus four. recent research shows that traits usually used to distinguish taxa at this time were actually widespread across several taxa, causing many of the taxa named to be invalid, like atlantosaurus. two years later, marsh announced the discovery of a larger and more complete specimen ( ypm vp 1980 ) from como bluff, wyoming, he gave this specimen the name brontosaurus excelsus. also at como bluff, the hubbell brothers working for edward drinker cope collected a tibia, fibula, scapula, and several caudal vertebrae along with other fragments belonging to apatosaurus in 1877 – 78 at cope ' s quarry 5 at the site. later in 1884, othniel marsh named diplodocus lacustris based on a chimeric partial dentary, snout, and several teeth collected by lakes in 1877